“Do you have any plans for the next few days, Nancy?” Carson Drew asked his daughter as she walked 
into their living room. “No, not especially,” the attractive girl replied. Smoothing back her 
reddishblond hair, she sat down beside him on the long sofa. She added eagerly, “Dad, is there 
something I can do for you—for instance, solve a mystery?” Mr. Drew, tall, handsome, and a leading 
attorney in River Heights, chuckled. “In a way, it is a mystery. Mr. and Mrs. Melody who live in town 
have been swindled by a Mountainville man named Rawley Banister. They want me to drive up there and 
put in a claim against him. I understand he was arrested on a similar charge.” “Is he in jail?” Nancy 
inquired. Her father shook his head. “He’s out on bail.” “Dad, you hinted that I might help you for 
the next few days. I take it you plan to stay in Mountainville.” “Correct. I wanted Mr. and Mrs. 
Melody to accompany me, but he can’t get away at this time.” Nancy’s mouth puckered teasingly and her 
eyes twinkled. “Mrs. Melody is going, though, and you want me to make a threesome.” Mr. Drew grinned 
and said, “I thought you’d be interested in seeing Rawley Banister’s fantastic home. He designed the 
house himself.” “What’s fantastic about it?” Nancy asked. “I guess just about everything. The house 
is on a wooded hilltop surrounded by a moat.” “Like a castle?” Nancy commented. Mr. Drew nodded. 
“People around there say the water in the moat sometimes catches fire!” Nancy gave her father a hug. 
“I can hardly wait to start. When do you want to go?” “Tomorrow morning directly after breakfast.” 
“That doesn’t leave me much time to decide what clothes to take,” Nancy remarked. She hurried upstairs 
to her bedroom and packed some summer knits. When the suitcase was filled, she went to the kitchen to 
help the Drews’ housekeeper prepare supper. Hannah Gruen was a lovable woman who had lived with Nancy 
and her father since the death of Mrs. Drew when Nancy was only three years old. As the young detective 
walked into the kitchen, Mrs. Gruen said, “Your father mentioned you two are taking a trip. Do be 
careful, my dear. You always start out solving mysteries with the idea you’ll be perfectly safe and 
you always end up getting into hot water.” Nancy smiled. How true Hannah’s statement was! She said, 
“I’ll be as careful as possible.” Then she told the housekeeper why they were going. “A swindler, eh?” 
Mrs. Gruen remarked. “The world is full of them and they always get caught in the end. Why do they do 
such things?” Nancy did not comment. She agreed but was thinking that if there were no swindlers, there 
would be fewer mysteries for her to solve! The following morning Nancy and her father set off in her 
convertible. Mr. Drew drove to Mrs. Melody’s home and strode quickly up the front walk to carry down 
the woman’s suitcase. She was in her early forties, and very pretty. Mr. Drew introduced her and 
suggested that she and Nancy sit in the rear seat. “Mrs. Melody, will you explain to my daughter how 
you were swindled?” Mrs. Melody said that a good-looking man who called himself George Ryder had sold 
the Melodys a piece of land in Arizona. It had turned out to be on an Indian reservation! “Foolishly 
we had only looked at maps the man had and fancy booklets showing beautiful homes surrounded by lovely 
bushes and flowers. Later my husband had business in Flagstaff and went to see our new piece of 
property. It was then that he discovered the swindle.” Nancy was puzzled. “You said the man’s name was 
George Ryder. I thought the one who sold you the land was Rawley Banister.” “Actually you’re right. 
When my husband tried to locate this George Ryder, he found the man had vanished. Just recently I 
happened to pick up the local newspaper and there was his picture. Only his real name was Rawley 
Banister and he’d been arrested.” Nancy remarked that he was out on bail. “True,” Mrs. Melody replied. 
“That’s why your father and I thought we would go directly to the man’s home in Mountainville, which 
had been mentioned in the article. We’ll confront him with the fake deed, giving us title to the land.” 
Mr. Drew added, “And put in a claim at once for the Melodys to get back their money.” Two hours later 
they drove into Mountainville, a pleasant tree-shaded village with smart-looking shops and a motel. 
Mr. Drew stopped to ask a traffic policeman directions to the Rawley Banister house. The officer looked 
surprised but without comment gave the information. After riding along streets lined with attractive 
homes, Mr. Drew turned into a hilly driveway marked PRIVATE and started up the steep slope. Woods on 
both sides of the road completely concealed the house, until they were within a thousand feet of it. 
“What a crazy-looking and scary place!” Mrs. Melody exclaimed. Nancy added, “It’s a real zigzag house.
The large building was made of fieldstone and lacked symmetry. Several walls had ugly protrusions, other walls were at a slant. Rising above the two stories were three slanting chimneys and a center tower with a windowed turret. Beyond the parking area was a moat. The callers got out of the car and walked across a narrow steel bridge that had no railings. Between the moat and the building was a poorly kept lawn and a few bushes, all of them in grotesque shapes of unbalanced geometric figures. “I wonder if the inside is as kooky as the outside,” Mrs. Melody said. The three walked up to the massive wooden front door, which had a large tarnished knocker but no bell. Mr. Drew lifted the knocker. Almost at once a voice from inside said, “Mr. Banister is not at home. Come back some other time.” The message was repeated and Nancy figured it was a recording. “I guess we’ll have to do as we were told,” Mr. Drew said, grinning. As the disappointed callers walked across the bridge, Nancy gazed down into the water and wondered if the story about it being on fire at times was a myth. “But such a phenomenon would certainly fit this strange place,” she thought. When they returned to town Mr. Drew pulled into the grounds of the Ruppert Motel and went inside to inquire about rooms. A few minutes later a boy escorted them up an outside stairway to a balcony. The three rooms assigned to them were in the center and overlooked the parking area. “I’ll meet you two in the lobby,” Mr. Drew said. “I have an errand to do.” Nancy and Mrs. Melody partially unpacked, then went downstairs together. They walked around the motel which was surrounded by artistic flower beds. By the time they reached the lobby, Mr. Drew was there. At once Nancy detected a worried look on his face. “Dad, is anything the matter?” she asked. Her father nodded. “I’ve just been talking to the desk clerk. He tells me that Rawley Banister has jumped bail and disappeared!” “What!” Mrs. Melody cried in dismay. “Then our trip has been in vain?” “Perhaps not,” the lawyer replied. “The clerk told me that Rawley has a sister in town named Mrs. Carrier. She lives in the old family homestead.” “What a crazy-looking place!” Mrs. Melody exclaimed “Do you think she knows where her brother is?” Nancy queried. “I doubt it,” Mr. Drew replied. “Furthermore, Mrs. Carrier and another brother named Thomas put up the bail money!” “How dreadful for them!” Mrs. Melody exclaimed. Mr. Drew continued, “I think we’d better have some lunch. It’s nearly two- thirty and that’s when the dining room closes.” There was little conversation during the meal. All were disappointed by the turn of events. They figured that before Rawley Banister vanished, he had set the tape recorder to announce he was not at home. “Do you think we can ever get inside the house?” Nancy asked. “I hope so,” her father answered. “We might pick up a clue there to his whereabouts.” Mr. Drew telephoned Mrs. Carrier. After hearing the story, she suggested that the trio come to her home that evening. “I prefer not to discuss my brother and his affairs on the telephone,” she said. “Of course,” Mr. Drew replied. “Is eight o’clock a good time?” “That will be fine.” Promptly at eight Mrs. Melody and the Drews reached the Carrier home. A short, rather stout, sweet-faced woman opened the front door. She invited them in, and then to the surprise of the Drews, cried out, “Joyce Johnson!” At the same moment Mrs. Melody exclaimed, “Sally Banister! I never connected you with Rawley Banister!” The two women embraced. “No wonder. We always called him Jack.” Mrs. Melody turned to the Drews and introduced them to her boarding school classmate of years ago. “We’d completely lost track of each other.” Mrs. Carrier graciously acknowledged the introduction, then said a bit sadly, “I’m sorry Joyce and I have met again under such adverse circumstances. But do come in and we’ll talk.” The Drews had been afraid Mrs. Carrier would be very guarded in her remarks and they would find out little. But now, learning that her school-mate was a client of Mr. Drew, she talked freely. “Rawley has always been a problem to our family,” she told them. “Time and time again we helped him out of scrapes. Finally the police caught up with him and he was arrested on a swindling charge. As you already know, my brother Thomas and I put up bail and now we’ll lose all that money. But this did not keep Rawley from disappearing. We have no idea where he is.” Mrs. Carrier went on to say that she had a feeling her brother did not intend to come back. “He mailed me a note and a key to his front door. None of the family has ever been inside the place. We were never invited.” Nancy asked, “Were the contents of the note something you don’t wish to reveal?” “Oh not at all,” Mrs. Carrier answered. “Rawley said, ‘I dare you to find the Crooked Banister. Sorry I disgraced the family. You are now in charge of everything.’ ” “The Crooked Banister?” Nancy queried. Mrs. Carrier gave a wan smile. “My brother used to refer to himself as the Crooked Banister. And each time he said it, he would laugh. The rest of us didn’t think it was funny.” She told Mrs. Melody, “Thomas and I will certainly repay you for every penny you lost.” Before Mrs. Melody could object, her friend changed the subject and said, “Would you people like to go out to Rawley’s house tomorrow morning?” “Oh yes,” Nancy replied. It was arranged that they would call for Mrs. Carrier about ten o’clock. Then, seeing that their hostess looked weary, the visitors left. On the way back to the motel, they heard fire sirens. When they reached the Ruppert Motel all were astonished by what they saw. “The motel’s on fire!” Mrs. Melody cried out. “The smoke seems to be coming from our rooms!” As they turned into the grounds, the police stopped them. Mr. Drew explained that they were staying there and he believed the fire was in their rooms. “Sorry, but you can’t go any farther!” a police officer said firmly. The firemen had dragged long hoses up the balcony stairs and inside the bedrooms. It seemed strange to Nancy that all three rooms should be on fire at once and that none of the adjacent ones were. It was soon evident that the contents were either burned or water-soaked. “I’m afraid everything is ruined!” Nancy said woefully. “What’s worse,” her father added, “the copies of the deed and other papers to prove our claim against Rawley Banister were in my brief case!” Mrs. Melody gasped. “And the originals were in my luggage!”
“MAYBE we can save the papers!” Nancy burst out. She rushed up to one of the firemen and asked if he could possibly retrieve the luggage. He shook his head. “Not a chance of its being any good. But the fire is out. I’ll ask the chief if you can go to your rooms.” He called up to the balcony and repeated Nancy’s request. The chief looked down. “It’s safe enough now. But there’s a lot of water damage.” Mrs. Melody and the Drews hastened up the stairway. First they came to Mr. Drew’s room. He looked inside and exclaimed, “My brief case is gone!” “How terrible!” Nancy said. Mrs. Melody hurried along the balcony while Nancy stepped into her bedroom. Nothing seemed to be missing, but her suitcase was wide open. Every bit of clothing in it was soaked, as well as the dresses hanging in an alcove. “What a mess this is!” she murmured. The next moment she heard Mrs. Melody coming back. In an excited voice the woman said, “The papers concerning the property are missing! They must have been stolen!” The fire chief looked at the three visitors quizzically, then called over a police inspector. “I suspected this incident was an incendiary act. Now these people say certain belongings of theirs have been stolen. There’s no doubt in my mind but that the thief set the three blazes.” The Drews exchanged questioning glances. A suspicion was forming in their minds. The inspector asked, “Have you folks any particular enemies?” “Not that we know of,” Mr. Drew replied, “but the stolen papers related to a case on which I’m working.” “My father is a lawyer,” Nancy added. The inspector made no further inquiries, but he wrote down Mr. Drew’s name and address in case he wanted to get in touch with him. After the firemen had left and the motel manager had assigned Nancy, her father, and Mrs. Melody to rooms in another section, the three went to the lobby and sat down to discuss what had happened. “I hate to say this,” Mrs. Melody spoke up, “but I suspect Rawley Banister was the one who stole the papers and set the fires.” Nancy agreed, but her father pointed out, “There’s a possibility it could have been a confederate of his.” Mrs. Melody, suddenly realizing her night clothes had been burned, said she wondered if any shops in the motel or in town might still be open. Nancy asked the desk clerk and learned that a small department store up the street did not close until twelve. Since the most popular section of the shop was the soda counter which was filled with young people, the Drews assumed that was the main reason for its being open late. The trio were able to purchase necessities to tide them over the night. In the morning they could buy other articles. When they returned to the motel, Mrs. Melody said she was going to bed at once. Nancy asked her father to accompany her to the burned-out rooms. “Maybe we can pick up a clue,” Nancy added. When they reached Mr. Drew’s former room, they found a police detective at work there. He said he had located a number of fingerprints but doubted that any of them belonged to the burglar. The Drews did not find a clue, either, in any of the rooms and walked onto the balcony. As Nancy stood looking out over the parking area, her foot touched something on the floor. Glancing down, she saw an unburned taper match in a crack and picked it up. Nancy showed the long match to her father. “I’ll bet the man who set the fires used one of these.” “It’s a good guess.” Nancy went on, “When we go to Rawley Banister’s house, I’ll hunt for taper matches. If I find any like this one, it should be pretty good proof that it was Rawley who was here.” She could hardly wait for the next day to come. Now that the Drews were directly involved in the mystery, Nancy was eager to start work. Although only eighteen, she had earned a reputation as an amateur detective by solving several cases, among them The Secret of the Old Clock, The Hidden Staircase, and most recently The Mysterious Mannequin. The following morning when the Drews and Mrs. Melody arrived at Mrs. Carrier’s home, they found her pale and nervous. Through a friend who was a newspaper reporter she had heard of the fires at the motel and the theft of important papers. “I was sure they were yours and I’m terribly sorry. I know you must suspect, as I do, that the arsonist was my brother Rawley. Oh, it’s dreadful to have a member of one’s family do disgraceful things!” She looked pleadingly at Nancy and her father. “The police have no trace of Rawley. Will you help me find him? I’m so worried that he’s using an assumed name again and cheating people out of money.” Tears trickled down the woman’s cheeks. Mrs. Melody put an arm around her old school friend. “Please don’t feel so bad about this. I’m sure your brother will be found and will make amends. Let’s go out to his house and see if we can find something to help solve the mystery.” They set out at once for Rawley Banister’s. When they reached the hilltop, the place seemed peaceful. In the bright sun the house did not appear so formidable. Mrs. Carrier took the key from her handbag and inserted it in the front-door lock. She turned the knob and the heavy door swung inward. The hall was dark but daylight penetrated for a short distance. “Oh! What’s that?” Mrs. Melody cried out, pulling back. All of them heard a strange whirring sound. The next instant a weird metal figure whizzed across the hall, then went out of sight. But in a couple of moments it returned and shot past the callers. “It’s a robot!” Nancy exclaimed. “He must be guarding the place.” The visitors hesitated to walk in, but presently the robot disappeared through a swinging door at the rear of the hallway. “I wonder if he’s coming back,” Mrs. Carrier said fearfully. “Rawley didn’t warn me that eerie things might happen here!” Nancy was puzzled why the tape recorder at the door had not worked. “Maybe the knocker sets it off.” But when she rapped with it, there was no voice. “Strange,” she murmured. Just then the robot came through the swinging door. This time the figure on wheels stopped beside a slanting column on top of which was a coach lamp. With one hand the robot turned on the lamp. The funny little mechanical man then went toward the front door and snapped on the switch for a ceiling fixture. “Oh!” Mrs. Carrier burst out. “I can’t believe it!” Mr. Drew smiled. “He seems harmless enough.” Mrs. Melody pointed to a broad staircase. It was the most fantastic one any of them had ever seen. It twisted and turned every few feet. Even the spindles were not upright; some slanted forward, others backward. On the left side the railing ended in a very attractive newel. The other banister stopped about three steps from the floor and ran into a wall. The staircase had not been centered. The whole thing gave the entrance hallway an unbalanced look. “Why do you suppose your brother planned all this unusual architecture?” Mr. Drew asked Mrs. Carrier. “I haven’t the faintest idea,” she answered. “As a little boy Rawley used to build queer-looking things with his blocks, and later with metal construction toys. He made buildings, bridges, and strange cars and planes.” Mr. Drew nodded. “That figures. This place was sort of your brother’s dream house.” “I suppose so,” Mrs. Carrier agreed. “He wanted to see how much he could build things off balance and without them toppling over.” Nancy continued to stare at the crooked staircase. Smiling, she said, “Sliding down that banister would be a terrific challenge.” “I certainly wouldn’t want to attempt it,” said Mrs. Melody. The walls of the entrance hall were papered in a gold-and-black floral pattern. There was only one picture. It hung just above the end of the unfinished banister, and was a framed Oriental hand-embroidered wall decoration. The visitors walked over to it and studied the weird design. “One, two, three, four, five, six, seven serpents,” Nancy counted, “all intertwined. They look greedy and horrible.” “Yes,” her father said. “And each one is eating poisonous food. Some are flowers, others snakes. I recognize this plant as deadly nightshade.” “And isn’t one of the serpents swallowing a poisonous snake?” Nancy asked. “I think it’s a cottonmouth.” Before anyone could answer, the callers were startled by an explosion beyond the swinging door. “Oh, what happened?” Mrs. Melody exclaimed. The group stood frozen. If they rushed in to find out, would they perhaps be trapped and never get out of this weird house alive?
THE visitors finally decided to find out what had happened behind the swinging door but to do so cautiously. Mr. Drew insisted upon looking first. Carefully he opened the door and peered inside. “I guess everything’s safe,” he said and motioned the others to follow him. Beyond was a large kitchen and in the center of the floor lay the robot, its head off! “My goodness!” Mrs. Melody exclaimed. “Is he—is he—dead?” Mr. Drew smiled. “At least he has been beheaded,” he answered. “But the rest of his body may be ‘hot.’ ” “What do you mean?” Mrs. Carrier asked. The lawyer explained that he did not know exactly how the robot worked. It was possible the figure was charged with electricity and should not be touched. “Let’s find out!” Nancy suggested and began pulling out kitchen drawers. Finally she found what she was looking for—a long-handled wooden spoon. “Perfect,” her father said. “This is a nonconductor. We’ll soon know if our little friend is hot!” He began poking into the neck of the robot and announced, “Here is a tape.” Further exploration revealed that many wires and pulleys ran to the robot’s arms and legs. “Evidently,” Nancy remarked, “this little man was programmed to do certain things, even to warn visitors away.” Mrs. Melody looked puzzled. “But if nobody was here, how did it start?” “I’m not sure,” Mr. Drew replied. “Some robots are set off by heat, even the warmth of a human body. Others are designed to react to sound. I suspect it is sound in this case.” Mrs. Carrier said, “You mean that when we came into the house the pitch of our voices activated the robot?” “Possibly,” Mr. Drew replied. Nancy took a flashlight from her purse and shone it down inside the figure. “A lot of wires are broken,” she said, “so we can be doubly sure this creature won’t hurt us. But I do think he should be fixed. I have a hunch he’s going to figure big in our mystery.” She opened other drawers and presently came upon reels of tapes, marked with numbers and letters. Nancy turned to Mrs. Carrier. “Is there a good electrician in town who would come and repair the robot?” she asked. Several seconds went by before the woman replied. “I dislike the thought of bringing strangers here,” she said. “But if you really feel that the robot might be a clue to the whereabouts of my brother, I’ll agree. There’s a very good electrician in Mountainville. I’ll get in touch with him.” Nancy thanked her and then suggested that they search the house. The kitchen was modern with an outside door which had a Yale lock. “I hope we don’t have any more scares,” Mrs. Melody said. On one side of the center hall, in back of a den, was the dining room with crudely made but symmetrical furniture. Its walls contained several paintings, all of queer-looking undersea creatures, some with long tentacles. The living room was on the opposite side of the hall. It was furnished with ultramodern pieces and had a large convex bookcase on the hall side. As the group mounted the zigzag steps to the second floor, Nancy and Mrs. Melody began to giggle The woman said, “This is like climbing a stony mountain trail that twists and turns every few feet.” The bedrooms and a study proved to be comfortable but filled with weird and ghoulish silver figurines. In the room where Rawley apparently slept, the bed had a high peak under the middle of the spread. Mrs. Melody remarked, “Sally, do you suppose your brother slept with his legs draped over that barrier?” “He’s tall enough to,” Mrs. Carrier answered. Nancy examined the bed and found that it contained a jointed mattress which could be moved electrically. She pushed one of the control buttons and the mattress descended to a flat position. “That looks better,” Mrs. Carrier said. While the others gazed at the ultramodern etchings on the walls, Nancy walked over to a fireplace which looked as if it had been used frequently. Ashes and half-burned logs lay just inside the hearth. A slender, rounded, brass box stood at the edge. Nancy opened it and gasped. Inside were a dozen taper matches that looked like the one she had found on the balcony of the motel! Not wishing to upset Mrs. Carrier, Nancy went over to her father, took his hand, and unobtrusively guided him to the brass box. Then she walked back to the two women. Mr. Drew lifted the lid and gave Nancy a knowing look as he closed it. A few minutes later Mrs. Carrier and Mrs. Melody left the room and went downstairs. The Drews discussed the clue of the taper match. “It certainly seems to indicate that Rawley set the fires and stole the papers,” Mr. Drew stated. “To make sure,” said Nancy, “I’ll take one of these fireplace matches along and compare it with the match I have at the motel.” When she and her father joined the two women at the foot of the crooked stairway, Mrs. Carrier said she was worried about leaving the property unguarded. “There’s a lot of valuable art work and silver pieces in this house. What do you think I should do, Mr. Drew?” The lawyer suggested a watchman. They found a telephone and directory in the kitchen and looked up the name of an employment agency in Mountainville. As Mrs. Carrier dialed the number, she gazed at the headless robot and remarked, “That thing gives me the creeps! ... Hello. Tepper Employment Agency?” “Yes. Frank Furness speaking.” Mrs. Carrier gave the address of Rawley Banister’s house and said she would like to hire a watchman to guard the place day and night. “I’ll call you back,” Mr. Furness said, “after I contact some names on our list.” Twenty minutes later the phone rang. “I’m sorry, madam, but I couldn’t find anyone to help you out. You know, that place has a reputation of being a crazy house. The men I asked said they wouldn’t go there for a million dollars!” He hung up. When Mrs. Carrier repeated the conversation, Nancy smiled. “Don’t worry. If guards are afraid to come here, I’m sure burglars would be too.” “I hope you’re right,” Mrs. Carrier said with a deep sigh. “I suppose we may as well leave.” The front door was securely locked and the visitors walked to Nancy’s car. Mr. Drew slid into the driver’s seat. Nancy sat next to him. On the way back to town, he said: “Mrs. Melody and I must leave directly after lunch.” Nancy was disappointed. She had just become involved in the baffling mystery and now she must give it up. To her surprise Mr. Drew said, “Nancy, if you are willing to stay here, I’d like you to continue work on the case.” The young sleuth’s eyes lighted up. “Dad, that’s terrific! You know I’ll do my best—” “Not so fast,” her father said, patting Nancy on the shoulder. “There’s one big condition that goes with this.” “What is it, Dad?” Mr. Drew said he would like Nancy to call her friends Bess and George to see if they could come and stay with her. “If they can’t, you’ll have to return home with me.” Bess Marvin and George Fayne were cousins. The two girls had been friends of Nancy’s for many years. They often accompanied her when she was working on mysteries and always proved to be of great help. After dropping Mrs. Carrier at her home, the Drews and Mrs. Melody returned to the motel. Nancy immediately phoned George and asked if she and Bess could spend a few days with her in Mountainville to solve a mystery. Nancy mentioned the motel fire. “If you girls can come, please call Hannah and have her pack a suitcase of clothes for me.” George said she would do this and let Nancy know the plans. During lunch she received a call from George saying she and Bess could come. They were getting a ride with a relative who would pass through Mountainville about five o’clock. Nancy told her father the good news. He wished the three girls luck and added with a chuckle, “Mrs. Melody, I always give Nancy hard assignments and always with great confidence that she will come up with the right answers.” He smiled affectionately at his daughter. Nancy smiled back, though she did not feel confident about solving this mystery. She had been given the difficult task of learning the whereabouts of a man who had not only disappeared but had left behind a frightening robot! She drove her father and Mrs. Melody to a bus stop directly after lunch and then went on a shopping tour to look at fall clothes. If she were going to stay in Mountainville for some time, there might be cool days. For a while Nancy’s mind was taken completely off the mystery as she tried on sports suits. She decided to purchase a tan suit, then bought shoes to match. Later, Nancy stopped at the police station and the firehouse to inquire if there was any new information on Rawley Banister or the person who had set the three blazes at the motel. In each case the answer was no. Leaving the firehouse, Nancy looked at her wrist watch. She still had plenty of time before Bess and George would arrive, and decided to walk back leisurely to the motel. As she gazed into an art-shop window, a man’s voice behind her said, “Hello, Nancy Drew.” She turned to face a stranger. Nancy was sure she had never seen him before. “I guess you don’t remember me,” said the tall, thin man with a rather pinched face. He was in his thirties, Nancy judged, and the thought also ran through her mind that he could use a good meal! He laughed and said, “I met you at Emerson College, where I used to teach. I’m Clyde Mead.” Still Nancy could not remember him. Emerson was the school her friend Ned Nickerson attended and she had been to many football games and house parties there. She tried her best to recall this man but failed. “You’re not at the college now?” Nancy asked. “No.” “What do you do?” “I’m a professional fundraiser. At present I’m working on an appeal you’ll certainly be interested in.” The longer the man talked, the more suspicious Nancy became of his former connection with Emerson College and of his sincerity. She decided to get away from him as quickly as possible.
DETERMINED to end the conversation, Nancy turned and said to Mr. Mead, “I must go back to the motel now.” She looked at her watch. “I’m expecting friends soon.” Nancy’s hopes of getting rid of the man vanished. Taking her arm and smiling most ingratiatingly, he said, “Let me take you there. I’m so glad I ran into you again.” Not wishing to make a scene on the street, Nancy allowed Mr. Mead to accompany her, but casually shook off his hand. When they reached the motel, he walked into the lobby with her. “Oh good!” he said. “They’re serving tea. Suppose you and I sit down and have some. I know you’ll be interested in what I’m doing. I’ll tell you about it. Have you ever been on an Indian reservation?” “Yes.” “Then you know that many of the Indians make only a bare living from farming, and their children lack many comforts of life.” Though concerned about the plight of the Indians, Nancy was exasperated by the man’s aggressive manner. Just as she decided that the only way to get rid of Mr. Mead was to go to her room, he summoned a waitress and ordered two cups of tea and a plate of cookies. The young detective’s face reddened in anger, but again she did not want to call attention to herself and reluctantly sat down. Once more she looked at her watch. If only Bess and George would come and free her from this man! There was still half an hour before they would arrive. Mr. Mead said, “My sympathy for the children on the reservations was aroused during a recent trip out West. The poor little ones need so many things—clothing, books, games, toys, and even food.” He pulled a pamphlet from his pocket. Distress and poverty were shown in a series of pictures. “Aren’t they pathetic?” he asked. “Miss Drew, surely you can’t refuse to help them. I know a fine little fellow who could use some money from you to buy clothes and food.” Nancy was touched by the depressing pictures, but did not reply. As she looked off into space, she was relieved to see Bess and George coming through the front door. Nancy jumped up, saying, “Excuse me, Mr. Mead. My friends have arrived.” She rushed over to the two girls and hugged them. Bess, blond and pretty, was slightly plump. George, slender and athletic-looking, enjoyed her boyish name. She too was attractive and had short black hair. “You made good time!” Nancy exclaimed. “Not much traffic,” Bess replied. “My aunt knew a shortcut, and here we are!” Nancy had not noticed that Clyde Mead had followed her. Bess and George looked at Nancy in surprise. The man did not wait for an introduction. He put out his hand. “You girls are friends of Nancy Drew?” he asked. “I’m so glad to meet you. The name is Clyde Mead, but just call me Clyde.” Thinking that Nancy had accepted his friendship, the cousins shook hands cordially. Nancy was even more angry with him now. Ignoring Mead, she asked Bess and George to register, then led the way to the room the three girls would share. When they were inside, Bess asked, “Who’s your new flame?” Nancy told them how the two had met. “Maybe Clyde Mead is working for a good cause, but he’s the most annoying man I’ve ever known! It would please me if I never see him again!” “Why, Nancy,” George said, “I haven’t seen you this mad in a long time! Tell us all about him—where he’s from and everything.” When Nancy had finished, George said, “I don’t blame you for being suspicious. He doesn’t seem like the professor type. Let’s forget him. We want to hear all about the mystery you’re working on.” Nancy told her friends how the Melodys had been swindled, then went on to describe Rawley Banister’s mysterious house with the robot guard, the amazingly crooked staircase, and the bizarre serpent picture. “It’s the craziest place I’ve ever heard of,” George remarked. “Just the same, I can hardly wait to see it.” Bess said she was not so sure she wanted to go inside the house. “It sounds spooky and dangerous. That robot may have more tricks up his sleeve!” Nancy laughed. “Not until he gets his wires fixed and his head back on!” She added that Mrs. Carrier was going to find an electrician to repair the robot. “I’d like to be there to see what happens,” she said. “How about going out to the house tomorrow morning?” “Great!” George replied. Bess said nothing, but was thinking, “I just knew if I came up here, Nancy would be working on something horrendous.” Aloud she remarked, “We’d better watch our step in that crazy place. Rawley Banister may have cooked up other things besides the robot.” Nancy spoke of the moat surrounding the house and the story that at times the water in it actually burned. George laughed. “I don’t believe a word of that legend.” The girls dressed for dinner and went downstairs to the pleasant dining room. They were able to get a table in a far corner. Nancy had requested that location to avoid any encounter with Clyde Mead. The three had just ordered when to her dismay she saw him coming toward them. “Good evening,” he said pleasantly and pulled out a chair. “You don’t mind if I eat with you? It’s such a bore having dinner alone. Don’t you agree?” None of them answered. The waitress took his order, then he began to talk once more about the Indian children he had met. “Many of them are extremely bright,” he said. “Given half a chance to further their education, they might become brilliant scholars, doctors, or engineers.” Within a short time Nancy and George became bored with Mr. Mead’s repetitious conversation, but Bess was fascinated by it. She let her dessert go uneaten. In desperation Nancy changed the subject. “Mr. Mead, have you ever seen or heard of the unusual house near here owned by Mr. Rawley Banister?” “No, I haven’t. Would you show it to me?” Nancy was firm in her answer. “I’m sorry but we wouldn’t have any time. We’ll be busy every single minute during our stay in Mountainville.” When the meal was over, the four walked out of the dining room. Nancy and George led the way. Mr. Mead accompanied Bess, walking a little distance behind the others. When they reached the lobby, Bess announced that she was going to her room for a minute. “Where shall I meet you girls?” George replied, “In the gift shop.” She had chosen this place thinking Clyde Mead would not follow her and Nancy. She was right. He walked off in another direction. Nancy and George went into the shop and wandered around. It was nearly fifteen minutes later when Bess joined them. “Sorry I took so long,” she said. George grinned. “I thought maybe you’d gone off to some Indian reservation with Mr. Clyde Mead.” Bess made a wry face at her cousin, then asked, “Have you bought anything?” “Not yet,” George replied. “You’re the big shopper of this threesome.” “Well, tonight I’m not,” Bess replied. George asked if Bess felt ill. “Of course not,” she said. “To tell the truth, I can’t get those poor Indian children out of my mind.” George looked at her cousin sternly. “Forget that man and his Indians! How do we know he’s on the level?” Bess did not reply. She waited patiently while Nancy and George bought neckties as gifts for their fathers. Then the three went to their room. At once Nancy said, “Want to see a real clue I picked up here last night in connection with the mystery?” “Sure do,” George replied. Bess said nothing. Nancy opened a dresser drawer and took out two taper matches. Holding one in each hand, she measured them, turned and twisted each, and finally said, “They’re identical!” George commented, “Okay, they’re identical. Just what does that mean?” “I found one near the fire. The other is from Rawley Banister’s house,” Nancy replied. “It’s possible he brought some matches from his home and used them to set the fires in the rooms Dad and Mrs. Melody and I had, but lost one in a crack on the balcony.” Bess and George gasped in astonishment. Just then the telephone rang. Nancy picked it up. A man at the other end asked, “Miss Drew?” “Yes.” The deep voice continued, “This is Mr. Banister!”
WHEN the speaker said he was Mr. Banister, Nancy caught her breath. Was this the man she and many others were trying to locate? Her heart pounded as she said, “Yes, Mr. Banister.” The caller went on, “I’m Thomas Banister, a brother to Rawley.” With a sigh Nancy relaxed. Bess and George, having seen their friend’s sudden change of expression, wondered who was telephoning. Mr. Banister said, “I understand your father is trying to locate my brother. That’s true, isn’t it?” “I believe so,” Nancy replied guardedly. “Well, listen,” the caller went on, “you give this message to your father. I didn’t know where to phone him. That’s why I called you. Tell him that he’s to stop work on the search at once!” “Stop work—?” “That’s what I said. This whole thing is a family matter and will be taken care of by us. We don’t need any other help. Is that clear?” “Quite.” Mr. Banister stated that he did not want to discuss the case further. “Drop it! Tell your father we’re sorry to have caused any inconvenience.” The caller hung up. Nancy sat staring at the ceiling. She thought, “The end of a beautiful mystery for me!” She turned to Bess and George and relayed the conversation. George knew how disappointed Nancy was and refrained from making any comment. Bess said with relief, “It’s probably better this way. I’m sure, Nancy, that you would have ended up with some horrible thing happening to you.” Without replying, Nancy dialed the Drew home. Her father was there and she told him about Thomas Banister’s message. “I’m amazed,” Mr. Drew said. “Mrs. Carrier seemed so eager to have us work on the mystery.” “What shall we do?” Nancy asked. After a moment’s pause her father said, “It was Mr. and Mrs. Melody who engaged me to take on this case. Suppose you phone Mr. Banister and remind him of this. See what he says and then we’ll decide upon our next move. Call me back.” Nancy looked up Thomas Banister’s number in the directory. As she was about to dial it, the thought suddenly occurred to her that perhaps Thomas Banister had not telephoned. Someone else might have used his name! She put in the call. A man’s voice said, “Hello?” Nancy asked, “Is this Mr. Thomas Banister?” “Yes.” “This is Nancy Drew. I’m at the motel. Did you phone me a little while ago?” “Why no,” he replied. “My sister has told me about you. I hope we’ll meet soon!” Nancy told him that someone using his name had telephoned and said her father was to give up the case at once. “He sounded exactly like you,” she finished. The young sleuth could hear a deep sigh at the other end of the line. “It must have been my brother Rawley. Did he say where he was calling from?” “No, he didn’t, Mr. Banister. Then, since you didn’t phone,” Nancy went on, “you and Mrs. Carrier do want Dad and me to keep on trying to find your brother?” “Indeed we do. Rawley must make amends. Personally I know nothing about his private affairs. It’s my guess, from what my sister tells me, he may have money or valuables stowed away which would take care of all his debts.” Nancy asked Thomas if he had any idea how Rawley had found out the Drews were on the case. “No, I haven’t,” he replied. After saying good-by, Nancy told Bess and George what Thomas Banister had said, then phoned her father. He too suspected that the call had been made by Rawley. Mr. Drew said he would try to have the call traced, but doubted that this would be possible. Next Nancy telephoned Mrs. Carrier to see if she and the electrician were going out to Rawley’s house the following morning. “Yes,” the woman replied. “And I’m eager to meet Bess and George. Will you pick me up at ten o’clock?” she asked. “Mr. Glassboro, the electrician, will follow in his truck.” When the group reached Rawley’s house the next morning, they led Mr. Glassboro to the kitchen and showed him the broken robot. “Well, that’s something!” he exclaimed. “This is a queer house all right and old Robby here just fits in.” “Do you think you can fix him?” Mrs. Carrier asked. Mr. Glassboro stood the five-foot-tall robot up on its wheeled feet and flashed a light inside. “Humph! There are a lot of broken wires and this tape in here snapped. That’s what caused the explosion. When he fell over, his head rolled off.” Nancy showed him the drawer where there were many other tapes. “Mrs. Carrier, I think I can mend this old fellow—at least, I’ll do my best. And splice the broken tape, too.” The others decided to leave the electrician alone and went to the front hall. Mrs. Carrier suggested she and the girls go through Rawley’s personal belongings on the second floor. Nancy agreed it was a good idea. “Maybe we’ll find a useful clue,” she added. They climbed the crooked staircase and started their search. The closets contained the usual assortment of clothing, shoes, and sports equipment. There was nothing to indicate that Rawley had strange taste in wearing apparel. “Apparently he didn’t take much with him,” Bess remarked. “Not an empty hanger in the place.” In the meantime Mrs. Carrier looked in the pockets of Rawley’s clothing. She did not find anything in them and began to rummage through the dresser drawers. “These are filled with so much stuff it will take forever to go through them,” she announced. “It would save time if you girls check the two chests in Rawley’s study.” Bess and George offered to do this while Nancy went downstairs to see how the electrician was progressing. As she neared the kitchen, Nancy thought it strange she did not hear a sound. “Probably Mr. Glassboro is doing some delicate manipulating with the wires,” she murmured. Nancy swung open the door to the kitchen and then stepped back, shocked. The electrician lay on the floor unconscious! Not far from him stood the robot, its head back on. “Oh, Mr. Glassboro!” Nancy cried out. She ran to assist him. As she was about to bend down, a whirring sound started inside the mechanical man and she turned to face him. The next moment the figure raised his two arms and clasped them tightly about Nancy. He began to squeeze her hard. “Help!” Nancy screamed. “Help!” Then she blacked out. Upstairs Bess and George heard the cry. “Nancy’s in trouble!” Bess exclaimed. The two girls scurried down the crooked stairway and into the kitchen. Their friend was draped over one arm of the robot. “We must get her loose!” George said urgently. “Bess, pull one of his arms. I’ll yank the other.” But neither limb would budge. “What’ll we do?” Bess wailed. “There’s only one thing to do,” George replied. “Apparently the tape that set off the robot is still running. We must stop it!” “Help!” Nancy screamed. “Help!” She looked around the kitchen at the scattered tools the electrician had been using. Seeing nothing heavy enough, she opened his workbag. Inside was a large wrench. George pulled it out and whacked the robot on the neck again and again. Finally the whirring stopped. The arms of the mechanical man fell to his sides and he dropped to the floor. Nancy sagged into Bess’s arms. Gently her friends placed her on the floor. “The robot must have done the same thing to Mr. Glassboro,” George said. “Quick! Get some ice!” Bess dashed across the room to the refrigerator and soon was putting cold cloths on Nancy’s head and chafing her wrists. George was doing the same to the electrician. In a few minutes both revived. They blinked their eyes and looked gratefully at Bess and George. “What happened?” George asked. Mr. Glassboro said that he had repaired the robot and wanted to find out if he worked. The electrician had taken a tape at random from the drawer and inserted it. “Robby had hardly started whirring when one of his arms moved up and gave me the neatest uppercut I’ve ever seen. It knocked me out.” George smiled. “In other words you were kayoed by a mechanical man!” The others laughed. As Nancy told what had happened to her, the electrician and the girls gazed at the fallen robot. Mr. Glassboro remarked, “If we try out any more of these tapes, we’d better put old Robby in a cage! But I’ll repair the one that caused the explosion, so it will be safe to use.” The mechanical man was dragged to his feet. Mr. Glassboro removed the head and looked inside the body. He said the wires seemed to be all right, but the tape had been ruined by George’s vigorous whacking. “Thank goodness!” said Bess. “This thing is really dangerous!” It was evident to the girls that Rawley Banister kept the robot on hand for protection. Was he so deeply involved in swindles that he feared for his life? they wondered. Mr. Glassboro spoke up. “This is no play toy. I’ll explain how he works, then I think he should be hidden. How about this closet here?” There was a key in the door, which George unlocked. The electrician briefed the girls on how to use the tapes, then rolled Robby into the closet and locked it. By this time Mrs. Carrier had come downstairs. She had not heard the commotion and was thunderstruck to learn what had happened. “You girls must be careful,” she said. “And Mr. Glassboro, I certainly am sorry that you had such a misadventure.” The man smiled as he started to mend the tape. “It’s all in a day’s work,” he said, “but I must admit I’m not used to being knocked out by a mechanical man.” He finished quickly and left in his truck. The others decided to go also and started across the bridge. In the excitement Nancy had forgotten to bring her handbag from the second floor. Mrs. Carrier unlocked the front door and the young sleuth hurried inside. By now she had learned how to go up the crooked stairway quickly, and was back in a few minutes. Mrs. Carrier and the girls crossed the narrow bridge. As the group headed for Nancy’s car, they saw a man walking up the woods road. Mrs. Carrier caught her breath. “It’s Rawley!” she exclaimed.
