6.9 meters, about twenty-three feet; though it seemed much larger for an eleven-year-old. —What did you do after the incident? —Nothing. We didn’t talk about it much after that. I went to school every day like any kid my age. No one in my family had ever been to college, so they insisted I keep going to school. I majored in physics. I know what you’re going to say. I wish I could tell you I went into science because of the hand, but I was always good at it. My parents figured out I had a knack for it early on. I must have been four years old when I got my first science kit for Christmas. One of those electronics kits. You could make a telegraph, or things like that, by squeezing wires into little metal springs. I don’t think I would have done anything different had I listened to my father and stayed home that day. Anyway, I graduated from college and I kept doing the only thing I knew how to do. I went to school. You should have seen my dad when we learned I was accepted at the University of Chicago. I’ve never seen anyone so proud in my life. He wouldn’t have been any happier had he won a million dollars. They hired me at the U of C after I finished my Ph.D. —When did you find the hand again? —I didn’t. I wasn’t looking for it. It took seventeen years, but I guess you could say it found me. —What happened? —To the hand? The military took over the site when it was discovered. —When was that?
When I fell in. It took about eight hours before the military stepped in. Colonel Hudson—I think that was his name—was put in charge of the project. He was from the area so he knew pretty much everyone. I don’t remember ever meeting him, but those who did had only good things to say about the man. I read what little was left of his notes—most of it was redacted by the military. In the three years he spent in charge, his main focus had always been figuring out what those carvings meant. The hand itself, which is mostly referred to as “the artifact,” is mentioned in passing only a few times, evidence that whoever built that room must have had a complex enough religious system. I think he had a fairly precise notion of what he wanted this to be.
I have no idea. Hudson was career military. He wasn’t a physicist. He wasn’t an archaeologist. He had never studied anything resembling anthropology, linguistics, anything that would be remotely useful in this situation. Whatever preconceived notion he had, it must have come from popular culture, watching Indiana Jones or something. Fortunately for him, he had competent people surrounding him. Still, it must have been awkward, being in charge and having no idea what’s going on most of the time. What’s fascinating is how much effort they put into disproving their own findings. Their first analysis indicated the room was built about three thousand years ago. That made little sense to them, so they tried carbon-dating organic material found on the hand. The tests showed it to be much older, somewhere between five thousand and six thousand years old.
You could say that. You have to understand that this flies in the face of everything we know about American civilizations. The oldest civilization we’re aware of was located in the Norte Chico region of Peru, and the hand appeared to be about a thousand years older. Even if it weren’t, it’s fairly obvious that no one carried a giant hand from South America all the way to South Dakota, and there were no civilizations as advanced in North America until much, much later. In the end, Hudson’s team blamed the carbon dating on contamination from surrounding material. After a few years of sporadic research, the site was determined to be twelve hundred years old and classified as a worship temple for some offshoot of Mississippian civilization. I went through the files a dozen times. There is absolutely nothing, no evidence whatsoever to support that theory, other than the fact that it makes more sense than anything the data would suggest. If I had to guess, I would say that Hudson saw no military interest whatsoever in all this. He probably resented seeing his career slowly wither in an underground research lab and was eager to come up with anything, however preposterous, just to get out of there.
Get out? Yes. It took a little more than three years, but he finally got his wish. He had a stroke while walking his dog and slipped into a coma. He died a few weeks later.
Nothing. Nothing happened. The hand and panels collected dust in a warehouse for fourteen years until the project was demilitarized. Then the University of Chicago took over the research with NSA funding and somehow I was put in charge of studying the hand I fell in when I was a child. I don’t really believe in fate, but somehow “small world” doesn’t begin to do this justice.
I asked myself the same question. They fund all kinds of research, but this seems to fall outside their usual fields of interest. Maybe they were interested in the language for cryptology; maybe they had an interest in the material the hand is made of. In any case, they gave us a pretty big budget so I didn’t ask too many questions. I was given a small team to handle the hard science before we handed everything over to the anthropology department. The project was still classified as top secret and, just like my predecessor, I was moved into an underground lab. I believe you’ve read my report, so you know the rest. Yes, I have read it. You sent your report after only four months. Some might think it was a little hasty. It was a preliminary report, but yes. I don’t think it was premature. OK, maybe a little, but I had made significant discoveries and I didn’t think I could go much further with the data that I had, so why wait? There is enough in that underground room to keep us guessing for several lifetimes. I just don’t think we have the knowledge to get There is enough in that underground room to keep us guessing for several lifetimes. I just don’t think we have the knowledge to get much more out of this without getting more data.
As far as I’m concerned, there’s no real reason not to trust the carbon dating. And to be honest, how old these things are is the least of our problems. Did I mention the symbols have been glowing for the last seventeen years, with no apparent power source? Each wall is made of four panels and has a dozen rows of eighteen to twenty symbols carved into it. Rows are divided into sequences of six or seven symbols. We counted fifteen distinct symbols in total. Most are used several times, some appear only once. Seven of them are curvy, with a dot in the center, seven are made of straight lines, and one is just a dot. They are simple in design but very elegant.
Actually, one of the few sections of Hudson’s report left intact by the military was the linguistic analysis. They had compared the symbols to every known writing system, past or present, but found no interesting correlation. They assumed each sequence of symbols represented a proposition, like an English sentence, but with no frame of reference, they couldn’t even speculate as to their interpretation. Their work was thorough enough and documented at every step. I saw no reason to do the same thing twice and I declined the offer to add a linguist to the team. With nothing to compare this to, there was logically no way to arrive at any sort of meaning. Perhaps I was biased—because I stumbled onto it—but I felt drawn to the hand. I couldn’t explain it, but every fiber of my being was telling me the hand was the important piece.
Well, it’s absolutely stunning, but I assume you’re not that interested in aesthetics. It measures 22.6 feet in length from the wrist to the tip of the middle finger. It seems to be solid, made of the same metallic material as the wall panels, but it’s at least two thousand years older. It is dark gray, with some bronze overtones, and it has subtle iridescent properties. The hand is open, fingers close together, slightly bent, as if holding something very precious, or a handful of sand, trying not to spill it. There are grooves where human skin would normally fold, others that seem purely decorative. All are glowing the same bright turquoise, which brings out the iridescence in the metal. The hand looks strong, but…sophisticated is the only word that comes to mind. I think it’s a woman’s hand.
It proved nearly impossible to cut or otherwise alter by conventional means. It took several attempts to remove even a small sample from one of the wall panels. Mass spectrography showed it to be an alloy of several heavy metals, mostly iridium, with about 10 percent iron and smaller concentrations of osmium, ruthenium, and other metals of the platinum group.
“I didn’t. I still can’t. I couldn’t even speculate as to what type of process could be used to achieve this. In truth, the weight didn’t bother me nearly as much as the sheer amount of iridium I was looking at. Iridium is not only one of the densest things you can find, it’s also one of the rarest. You see, metals of this group—platinum is one of them—love to bond with iron. That’s what most of the iridium on Earth did millions of years ago when the surface was still molten and, because it’s so heavy, it sunk to the core, thousands of miles deep. What little is left in the Earth’s crust is usually mixed with other metals and it takes a complex chemical process to separate them.
It’s rare, very rare. Let’s put it this way, if you were to put together all the pure iridium produced on the entire planet in a year, you’d probably end up with no more than a couple metric tons. That’s about a large suitcaseful. It would take decades, using today’s technology, to scrounge up enough to build all this. It’s just too scarce on Earth and there simply aren’t enough chondrites lying around.
Sorry. Meteorites; stony ones. Iridium is so rare in Earth rocks that it is often undetectable. Most of the iridium we mine is extracted from fallen meteorites that didn’t completely burn up in the atmosphere. To build this room—and it seems safe to assume that this is not the only thing they would have built—you’d need to find it where there are a lot more than on the Earth’s surface.
Jules Verne is one way to go. To get this type of metal in massive quantities, you’d either have to extract it thousands of miles deep or be able to mine in space. With all due respect to Mr. Verne, we haven’t come close to mining deep enough. The deepest mines we have would look like potholes next to what you’d need. Space seems much more feasible. There are private companies right now hoping to harvest water and precious minerals in space in the very near future, but all these projects are still in the early planning stages. Nonetheless, if you could harvest meteorites in space, you could get a lot more iridium, a whole lot more.“
That pretty much sums it up. After a few months of looking at this with every piece of equipment known to man, I felt we were getting nowhere. I knew we were asking the wrong questions, but I didn’t know the right ones. I submitted a preliminary report and asked for a leave of absence.
Not exactly. There might be a much more down-to-earth explanation, one I just didn’t think of. As a scientist, all I can say is that humans of today do not have the resources, the knowledge, or the technology to build something like this. It’s entirely possible that some ancient civilization’s understanding of metallurgy was better than ours, but there wouldn’t have been any more iridium around, whether it was five thousand, ten thousand, or twenty thousand years ago. So, to answer your question, no, I don’t believe humans built these things. You can draw whatever conclusion you want from that. I’m not stupid; I knew I was probably putting an end to my career. I certainly annihilated any credibility I had with the NSA, but what was I going to do? Lie?
It’s a small town built during the gold rush. It was a rowdy place, like in the movies. The last brothels were closed when I was a kid. Our claim to fame, besides a short-lived TV show on HBO, is that the murder of Wild Bill Hickok happened in Deadwood. The town survived the end of the gold rush and a few major fires, but the population dwindled to about twelve hundred. Deadwood sure isn’t thriving, but it’s still standing. And the landscape is breathtaking. It’s sitting right on the edge of the Black Hills National Forest, with its eerie rock formations, beautiful pine forests, barren rock, canyons, and creeks. I can’t think of a more beautiful place on Earth. I can understand why someone would want to build something there. 
Yes. It’s part of who I am although my mother would probably disagree. She appeared hesitant when she answered the door. We barely spoke anymore. I could sense that she resented the fact that I never came back, not even for Dad’s funeral, that I left her all alone to cope with the loss. We all have our way of dealing with pain, and I suppose that deep down my mother understood that this was just my way, but there was anger in her voice, things she would never dare to speak out loud but that would taint our relationship forever. I was OK with that. She had suffered enough; she was entitled to resentment. We didn’t talk much the first few days, but we quickly settled into some form of routine. Sleeping in my old room brought back memories. When I was a child, I often snuck out of bed at night and sat by the window to watch my dad leave for the mine. He would come to my room before every night shift and have me pick a toy to put in his lunch box. He “said he would think of me when he opened it and come spend his lunch break with me in my dreams. He didn’t talk much, to me or to my mother, but he knew how important little things can be for a child and he took the time to tuck me in before every shift. How I wished my dad were there so I could talk to him. He wasn’t a scientist, but he had a clear view of things. I couldn’t talk to my mother about this. We’d been having short but pleasant discussions for a few days, which was a welcome change from the polite comments about food we’d been exchanging since I arrived. But what I did was classified and I did my best to steer our conversations away from what was on my mind. It got easier with every week that went by, as I found myself spending more time reminiscing about childhood mistakes than I did thinking about the hand. It took nearly a month before I hiked to the site where I’d first seen it. The hole had long since been filled. There were small trees starting to grow back through the dirt and rocks. There was nothing left to see. I walked aimlessly until nightfall. Why did I find the hand first? Surely there must be other structures like the one I fell in. Why did no one find them? Why did it happen on that day? The hand had been dormant for millennia. Why did it happen then? What triggered it? What was present twenty years ago that hadn’t been for thousands of years? Then it hit me. That was the right question to ask. I had to figure out what turned it on.
I was called on NATO duty. I arrived early in the morning and got some sleep. Mission briefing was at 16:00. They introduced me to my second, CW Mitchell, and we went over the mission. We would fly out at 02:00 on a modified stealth UH-60 out of Adana. We were to enter Syrian airspace at very low altitude and collect air samples about twelve miles south of the border, near Ar Raqqah.
No. We were to fly in and out. They brought in some pretty big equipment with us to detect signs of nuclear activity from the air samples we’d bring back. We left Incirlik Air Base at 02:00 as planned. We went east along the border for about an hour and turned south into Syria. We flew nap-of-the-earth for about twelve minutes with an AGL of eighty feet. We reached the designated coordinates around 03:15, collected air samples, and headed back the way we came.
Like clockwork. We were back in Turkish airspace in less than twenty-five minutes. I climbed up to eight hundred feet while we put some distance between us and the border. We were approaching Harran when we noticed some light directly below us. It wasn’t city lights. We were over farmland, and the color wasn’t right. Then out of nowhere, the engine stopped, and the entire cockpit went dark. We could hear the rotors slowing down, then nothing. There was this turquoise glow emanating from the fields below. Countless small bush-like trees planted thirty feet apart with nothing but dirt in between. We just sat there, staring. It was surreal, very…peaceful. Then we dropped like a rock.
The air bag slammed into my visor and knocked me out when we hit the ground. I woke up a few minutes later. I was alone in the helicopter. An old man in a white cotton tunic was trying to undo my restraints. He must have been at least sixty. He had dark, leathery skin. He looked at me and mumbled something he must have known I couldn’t understand. Then he just smiled. Some of his lower teeth were missing, but he had very kind eyes. I regained my composure and helped him unstrap me from the seat. 
“He helped me out slowly, putting my arm over his shoulder. Someone grabbed my other arm, a young girl, maybe sixteen years old. She was very pretty. She kept looking down, spoke only a little bit when the man addressed her. He could have been her father, maybe her grandfather. They sat me down about a hundred feet from the helicopter and the man gave me some water out of a canteen. The young girl showed me a piece of cloth and gestured toward my forehead. As I didn’t object, she put the wet cloth over my right eye. She removed it and quickly put it away, probably hoping I wouldn’t notice the blood.
I didn’t know at first. It took a minute or two before I noticed several people gathered a few steps behind the helicopter. I couldn’t make out any of their faces, only their shadows against the turquoise light. I got up. The young woman kept repeating the same few words—“don’t get up,” I suppose. I started walking toward the light. I made it to the edge of this huge crater that defaced the pistachio field. The light was so bright.
Mitchell was there with some locals. He grabbed my arm and put it around his shoulder, then held me to his side. He seemed genuinely happy to see me. I’m not quite sure what we were staring at, but it was the most awe-inspiring thing I’ve ever seen. It looked like a whale made of dark metal—maybe a ship, or a submarine, though it seemed a little small. It was sleek and curvy, like the body of a 747, but with no apparent opening, no propeller. It looked more like an Italian work of art than it did anything practical. Turquoise veins were running through the surface at regular intervals forming a weblike pattern.
“I don’t know. Maybe ten minutes. We were distracted by the sound of other helos and the wind blowing sand in our faces. Four Blackhawks landed around the crater, letting out more Marines than I could count. They brought Mitchell and me to one of the helicopters and we took off immediately. The Marines on the ground were moving people away from the crater. I saw two of them attempting to stop the local police from approaching the site.
In the late sixties, a couple of astrophysicists devised an experiment to collect and count neutrino particles emanating from the sun. I remember reading about it when I was a kid. They built a big pool of dry-cleaning fluid almost five thousand feet belowground to shield it from other solar phenomena and basically just waited for neutrinos to hit it. When a chlorine atom is hit by a neutrino, it turns into a radioactive isotope of argon—argon-37, to be precise. Every once in a while, they would bubble up helium to collect the argon and they were able to count the atoms that were hit. Beautiful science, they took something purely theoretical and managed to turn it into something concrete. They ran this experiment for nearly twenty-five years at the Homestake mine where my father worked, a couple miles from where I fell onto the hand. I’m willing to bet these things react in proximity to the argon.
The pilot said they flew in some large equipment with them to Turkey. It would have been a MARDS—Movable Argon Detection System—or something like that. In any case, it’s a big machine that can detect argon-37. An underground nuclear reaction will turn the surrounding calcium into just that. It’s a pretty reliable way of detecting a nuclear site. You can’t hide from it. You can’t cheat. Calcium’s everywhere, in sand, in rocks, in people, and some of the argon that a nuclear blast would create will eventually escape into the air, no matter how deep the explosion.
It would have to be just this one. There’s a whole lot of argon-40 in the atmosphere, everywhere, other isotopes as well. But, I agree, it does seem odd that these artifacts would react to something so specific…
This might sound a little crazy, but hear me out. Suppose you encountered some civilization that’s too far behind technologically for you to engage in any sort of dialogue with. Anyone capable of building these things would have scared the hell out of people six thousand years ago. They would have been seen as gods, demons, supernatural beings of one kind or another. Now, say you wanted to leave something for them to discover, but only once they had evolved to a certain point.
You’d want to know when they reached a sufficient understanding of the universe for you to be able to communicate with them in a meaningful way. It would most likely have to be measured technologically. It seems reasonable to assume that most or all species similar to humans would go through more or less the same evolutionary steps. Make fire, invent the wheel, those types of things. Flight might be a good criterion, or spaceflight. If you can look up at the sky, it’s safe to say you’ll eventually try to find a way to get up there, and space-faring species might at least be open to the idea of not being alone in the universe. Unless you were there to observe, you would need a way to detect whatever evolutionary landmark you chose. If you hid these things on a moon, for example, you’d know they’d only be found once they’re able to reach that far. From where I stand, being able to harness nuclear energy would also be a pretty good criterion. Now—and this is the clever part—if you designed these things to react specifically to argon-37, they could only be discovered once that civilization managed to tap the power of the atom. This is all pure speculation, or course, but if that’s what they did, I’m impressed. In any case, I think we have to take another look at the panels. We’re going to need a linguist after all.
That was before I knew about the argon. If that site was built there for us to discover, there has to be something in it that we can figure out. If you were to build a structure, say a temple, for your own people, you’d write things in it that make sense to you. But if you were building that same temple for someone else, you’d want what you write to also mean something to whomever you built it for. There’s just no point in writing a message if you know the person you write it for will never be able to understand it.
I’m sorry. Generally speaking, people tend not to question what they’ve been told was true. Scientists are no different; they’ve just been told a lot more things. As a physicist, it would never occur to me to question the four fundamental forces, for example. I take them for granted, like every other thing I learned, and I try to build on that. We always look forward; never look back. But this thing…it’s different. It challenges us. It spits in the face of physics, anthropology, religion. It rewrites history. It dares us to question everything we know about ourselves…about everything. I must sound pretty philosophical again.
I’d like to try someone not as well trained, some hotshot student maybe, someone who doesn’t need to throw the rule book out the window because he hasn’t read it yet. We need to look at this from a whole new angle. I’ll contact the linguistics department and see if they have someone to suggest.
They are. My point is that I have absolutely no idea how it works. We just moved them close to one another to see how they would fit and they were drawn together like magnets. My assistant almost lost a hand. I can’t talk intelligently about how the parts attach except to say it made a very loud, and very cool…swoosh sound…when they did.
Oh yes. It’s killing me not to have it all right now. I may be getting ahead of myself, but I can’t see how there wouldn’t be. I could understand these being some sort of monuments or art forms if we had found another hand, a head, even a foot, but a forearm doesn’t seem like something you would build for its own sake. It’s not my area of expertise, but I can’t see a forearm playing a strong part in religious beliefs. And if I read the report correctly, there was no chamber surrounding it in Turkey either; no walls, no markings. It’s much too large to fit in the chamber the hand was found in, so it must have been buried elsewhere on purpose.
Impossible to guess. Months. Years? If the body is divided along the major articulations like we’d expect, there should be at least fourteen pieces; three for each arm and leg, that makes twelve, a head and one or several pieces for the torso. I can only hope that piece in Turkey was the exception and that the rest of the body parts are closer to where we found the hand.
If I’m correct, and they want us to find these things, they would have buried the pieces on land, where we can get to them relatively easily. I hope so, because searching the ocean is a completely different story.
I’ll have to request more funding from the NSA. I’m not sure how long this might take, but I’m absolutely certain I can’t do any of it on our budget.
Forget the NSA? Remind me whom you’re working for exactly? Wait. Don’t answer that. I’ll send you a list of equipment. We’ll also need a delivery system, possibly an airplane or a helicopter that can fly long distances. We’ll need a crew, I guess, and a team to recover what we find. This part might get complicated. As far as body parts go, what we found were the smallest ones. They’ll only get bigger.
How does what make me feel? That women can’t join special ops? I knew that when I joined the Army. There are still a lot of rewarding jobs for women in the military. Do you wanna know if I’m upset I can’t fly anymore? You bet I am. It feels like my legs were cut off.
Most kids want to become firemen, policemen, fighter pilots, astronauts. Most people change their mind when they get older. I always wanted…No, that’s not true; I wanted to be a princess. But I knew I wanted to become a helicopter pilot the minute I saw one hover over our house. I must have been five or six. I haven’t changed my mind ever since, never questioned my choice to join the armed forces. It’s who I am. It’s the only thing that really makes me feel alive.
Oh yeah. Like she says, all you need is some faith and trust…and a little bit of pixie dust…We’ve been flying all over North America for just over four months now. It’s sort of like crop dusting at night, only from a lot higher, and it’s probably a lot more illegal. Operation Tinker Bell, that’s what we call it. It was too easy, flying around leaving a trail of magic powder behind.
Definitely working. Hats off to Dr. Franklin, she sure can cook. ARCANA, she calls it. It means “secrets,” or in this case Argon-Rich Compound for Aerial Nocturnal Application. I think she just liked the acronym. When we first started, pretty much everyone but Dr. Franklin thought this was a complete waste of time, but we found another arm piece in Vermont our first week out. We almost crashed again, though. Kara thought…
Chief Warrant Officer Resnik. I’m sorry. We’ve been working with civilians for a while now. I guess it rubs off. She and Dr. Franklin thought we’d be fine flying at eight thousand feet, but when the arm piece we found activated, our engine stopped just like it did in Turkey. Fortunately, we were high enough for autorotation, and she was able to restart the engine before we hit the ground. She’s really amazing to watch. Not the most tactful person you’ll ever meet, but the girl can fly.
Actually, we would be. In the Army, the co-pilot is second-in-command. That means she’s my superior. We have our own tiny little chain of command to jeopardize, and the Army is pretty serious about the Uniform Code. It doesn’t matter anyway. I find her attractive, that’s all. And believe me, she’s not the least bit interested. She acts like she barely tolerates me.
Yes! We’ve divided the country into a grid. Each box on the grid is roughly the square mileage we can cover in one night, based on the time it takes to get there from the nearest Army base. We can cover a good portion of the map from here, and we go from base to base to clear the boxes farther east and south. We’re just about halfway through the grid right now.
We have, sir. As I mentioned, we almost crashed our first week out, so we went up to fifteen thousand feet on the next flights. We were unsure whether it was close enough for the pieces to activate before we got too far away to see them. It took about a month before we found another part, a lower leg, then a foot, along the Kansas-Missouri border.
A big one. I was hoping it would have some giant toes, but it looks more like a fancy thick-soled boot than a foot. It’s a beautiful piece though. Dr. Franklin said she had good taste in shoes.
It turns out flying higher is also a lot faster, the ARCANA dispersal pattern is much wider at high altitude so we need fewer passes to cover the same area.
I’m not really good with measurements, maybe sixty feet. Big enough to make a hell of a mess, I’ll tell you that. The highway was completely destroyed for about half a mile. The way Dr. Franklin explains it, these things are buried very deep underground, around nine hundred feet deep, and they rise to the surface really, really fast when they’re turned on. I’m glad we’re in a helicopter. I sure as hell wouldn’t want to be around when these things come up. It’s got to feel like the world’s coming to an end.
Yes. His father was also in the military. It’s sort of a family tradition. I wanna thank you for taking me on board, sir. I know you didn’t really choose me, but I’m really glad to be here. I’m very grateful. This is more exciting than anything I ever imagined.
Oh yes. Very well. Dr. Franklin takes very good care of us. We spent nearly a week with her before we flew anywhere. She brought us up to speed, showed us everything she’d been doing. She made us feel like we’re really part of the team, not just some grunts doing the legwork. That hand is amazing. Do you really think it came from…you know…out there?
I wouldn’t dare either. She’s very motherly. I can’t imagine what she’d be like if she were mad. I’m sure it’s not something I want to find out. She’s very nice. And she’s incredibly smart. She tries to dumb things down when she talks about what she does, but there’s still a lot I don’t really understand.
Yes, sir. Dr. Franklin is in a great mood. Kara—sorry, Chief Resnik—and her, they get along great. It’s hard to tell at first, but they’re a lot alike. They have completely different manners but they both have that drive, that sense of purpose. I think they even look alike, when you get a good look at them together, like sisters, or cousins. They have the same dark hair, the same intense stare. They seemed to make a connection right away.
The guys on the team used to make jokes about kids that were less athletic. They would pick on them in the hallways, any chance they got. I was smart enough to know it was wrong, but not brave enough to stop them. I didn’t stand up for the weaker kids and maybe I should have.“It was such a beautiful day too. I got up earlier than usual and made it to the lab early in the morning. Since we fly at night, we never really get to spend time with Dr. Franklin or anyone else at the lab. But they were all there and we got to talk for a few hours, swapping anecdotes, learning about one another’s work.
Mitchell and I left around 10:30. We drove over to the base to prepare our flight plan. We flew straight to Nellis Air Force Base, near Las Vegas. My eye didn’t bother me as much as I thought it would. It doesn’t hurt anymore, but it gets watery after a few hours. It’s not so bad at night, but this was a long trip during daylight and it had me worried a bit.
We slept for a couple hours when we got to Nellis, then we took off again. We had to cover the northern part of Arizona. This was the farthest we’d gotten from the base. It was a long day, but we were excited to fly over the Grand Canyon, neither of us had ever seen it. We wouldn’t really see anything at night, from this altitude, but it still felt good, like a layover in Paris. You never leave the airport, but even so, you’re in Paris.
Our flight was uneventful, right up until the end. We were heading west near the south edge of the Grand Canyon when I noticed some lights flickering to my left. This was different from the other times we found a body part. There was a patch of white lights. It was there before but neither Mitchell nor I had been paying any attention to it. There was a turquoise spot right in the middle of it, and lights flickering all around. I’ve been in Iraq. This looked like someone had dropped a bomb in the middle of town. I looked at our map. It was Flagstaff.
I landed in a restaurant parking lot, about three blocks away. We started running toward the flames. Several people wearing next to nothing were running the other way. It was chaos. The fire department hadn’t arrived yet, neither had our recovery team. A few people were fortunate enough to get out of their homes in time to see them reduced to nothing. They were running in the streets, trying to avoid fallen electric lines. I could see the telltale glow coming from a large crater where two large houses used to stand.
A woman in her nightgown ran out of nowhere and latched on to me, screaming, “Amy! Amy!” She kept screaming her name, pulling me by the arm toward the edge of the crater. “She was in her room! Amy was in her room!”
Her house appeared to be in fairly good shape from the front, but the back half had been ripped right off. It was like a dollhouse—you could see every room, every piece of furniture. Amy’s room was on the edge, it was just…Mitchell pulled the mother away from me, doing his best to restrain her. “She’s gone,” he told her, holding her as tight as he could. “She’s gone.”
The hole was all muddy and filled with debris. There must have been a water line running somewhere. There were telephone poles sticking out like ragweed, chunks of bricks. We could see the front end of a car. All of it was mixed with mud and rocks. There was no way to even try to look for survivors.
There was this dog, a Bernese mountain dog, not a puppy, but you could tell he wasn’t fully grown. It was just standing there, right on the edge, barking at a patch of debris. There were lots of dogs barking, but this one kept jumping and barking at the same spot. He was just so intent, staring at some random spot. There was nothing there, nothing but mud, some clothes, a microwave oven.
Mitchell and I left the crater and went through a couple of the houses that were on the edge. Nothing.
Only eight people died that night. That’s what they told me. Most apparently ran out when the ground started shaking. Only eight…I pushed a button fifteen thousand feet away and I killed eight people, ordinary folks who never did anything to deserve this. They must have been so scared.
They tell me there was nothing we could have done to save any of them. I know that’s not true. We could have not gone over there. We didn’t have to do any of this. I wish it were as easy as saying I was just following orders. I chose to go. I’m responsible.
Everyone seems to have found a way to bury this, everyone but me. They’ve all shown great concern over me, lots of care and compassion. I don’t deal well with that kind of attention. I know it’s not pity, but I’m used to being the one taking care of people.
Mitchell comes to see me as often as I let him, which clearly isn’t often enough for him. He really cares, everyone can tell. But I don’t want to talk to him about this. He was there, just like I was. He’s the one who actually pushed the button. He must feel as responsible as I do. And if we keep flying together, I don’t want this to get in the way.
“I’ve been spending a lot of time with Dr. Franklin since it happened. She wants me to call her Rose, as if I ever could. She’s holding herself together really well, considering. She’s the one that orchestrated all of this. The weight on her shoulders must be unbearable.
She comes every morning before her shift, sometimes she stays for a few hours. She plays the part of the big sister very well. She’s the only one who gets me thinking about something else. She brings me a new book every couple days, bad ones; they’re all horribly corny love stories. But she reads them too, and we laugh about them when we’re done. We have the same kind of humor for that kind of stuff. I guess she’s been as lucky as I have when it comes to relationships.

She’s never asked me to talk about what happened. She knows I’ve talked about the incident with everyone else. It’s all they wanna talk about. I don’t need to go through the events a thousand times to remember. I was there. I’ll remember how it went down for the rest of my life. I remember every detail; what the people were wearing; the picture frames on the walls of those houses that were torn in half. Dr. Franklin understands that. I’m grateful for that. I’m not sure I could go through this if it weren’t for her.
I know she still believes that some good can come of this. I can tell. For a while, I thought she was just driven by scientific curiosity, but now I know, she believes it’s worth it. She really thinks we can gain some knowledge that will help people. It’s nice to see that kind of conviction remain after such a tragedy. I wasn’t expecting it.

Speaking of surprises, Vincent showed up yesterday. I certainly didn’t think he would, since we barely know each other. He only stayed for a minute, but he brought me a present, as he called it. A gift card, $25 at the Home Depot. I laughed my head off. That was the point, I guess. Then he just said goodbye and left. It was touching in some strange way. I don’t know anything about him. He spends all his time alone in the other room, so we never have a chance to talk.

Dr. Franklin told me they’ve put together a leg, and it’s not what we expected. The knee bends the wrong way, apparently. It has an extra joint, so we’re still missing a piece above the thigh. She says it’s like the hind legs on a horse. I can’t wait to see it, but I’m not ready to go back yet.

“It must show. Ryan said our nameless friend asked him how he’d feel about taking over. Ryan wasn’t thrilled about the idea, but he said he’d do it if I told him to. He said they could find me some work on the ground if I wanted out, that everyone would understand.
How nice of them. Ryan’s such a Boy Scout, he doesn’t even know when he’s being played. I get the feeling we’re dealing with someone who doesn’t easily take no for an answer. Push comes to shove, I think our “friend” would put a gun to my head before he ever let me quit.

I just realized our personal journals are saved on the lab servers. I’d be really surprised if “you know who” wasn’t listening to them. Hey! Asshole! Two things I need to say to you. Number 1: Don’t do that. Number 2: I’m guessing you chose me for a reason. You didn’t have to pick a girl with a busted eye and an attitude. I never quit anything in my life. You didn’t learn much from that stupid test of yours if you think I could ever leave this behind.
Like I said, I just need some time to sort things out, but we have to finish this. That little girl, all those people…We have to see this through.

More than half a city block was destroyed last night in Flagstaff, in what authorities are calling a terrorist plot gone wrong.
Suspected domestic terrorist Owen Lehman died last night around 1:00 A.M., along with his 15-year-old son and 6 other people, in what appears to be a tragic bomb-making accident.

Lehman, who had been denied disability benefits back in 2012, had been sending increasingly hostile letters to the Federal government. “The language used in some of his recent correspondence was considered threatening. We took it seriously,” said FBI Agent Robert Armstrong from the Phoenix field office. “Trace elements, as well as fragments recovered on-site, lead us to believe Mr. Lehman was attempting to build a large explosive device, which must have accidently detonated.” The FBI had been monitoring Mr. Lehman for several months but lacked sufficient evidence for an arrest. “Obviously, we wish we knew then what we know now,” said Armstrong, “but we believe the intended target was the Social Security office on Woodlands Village Blvd.

When asked about the absence of any fire damage, Armstrong added: “The explosion ruptured waterworks directly below Mr. Lehman’s residence. That created some sort of landslide, which swallowed most of the debris and put out the fire. We got lucky. It could have been a lot worse.”
Nearby resident Clarissa Parlow said Lehman was well liked by his neighbors. “He had a quiet way about him. He seemed shy, more than anything. I guess you just never know about people.”
Further investigation is under way. Governor Udell plans to address the media later today when he visits the site.

Flying over other countries uninvited is easy. If we do this right, no one will ever know we were there. But if it works—and it will work, eventually—these body parts will surface. Some will surface in the middle of nowhere, but some will definitely surface where you do not want them to. They will come up hard, and they will come up fast, and they will destroy things. You thought Flagstaff was bad. Imagine what one of these things will do to downtown London or Paris. How about the Red Square in Moscow? A lot more than eight people will die, a whole lot more. They will be as innocent as the ones that just died. More little girls with curly red hair.

Most importantly, my people will not always be there in a matter of minutes to collect the pieces, which means other people will. They most likely will have no idea what they are looking at, but it will not take them long to figure out that it is worth their attention. Most likely, they will also not be happy about their little girls being crushed into the Earth.
You will need to get the pieces back from these people. You will ask nicely at first. Some of them will listen. Some of them will not.

What then? There will already be a whole lot of blood on your hands. Will you stop there? You really need to ask yourself: “What am I prepared to do?” If you and the president are not willing to go all the way, there are other players in this game who might not have the same reservations.
As always, my dear Robert, you are the epitome of clarity. Empty threats aside, my point still holds. This was never something we were going to be able to do without leaving this country. You have to remember—and you should have figured this out when you read my first report—these things were buried three thousand years ago. All those borders you are so worried about flying over, they are nothing but color lines on a map. None of these lines existed three thousand years ago.

You’re probably right. I want you to tell her—about the torso, that is. You’ll have to tell her about the other team anyway. She’ll be pissed off. I want you to tell her to figure out how this thing works and what it can do. I don’t care if they have to work around the clock, just tell her to do it. Then I want to talk to her. I sure as hell don’t trust you with any of this. Now if—do you hear me—if she tells me she can make it work, then you’ll have the full support of this office. If she says she can’t…Well, let’s impress upon her how it would be in everyone’s best interests that she can.

The chamber rotates inside the torso based on its incline. Basically, it’s a big gyroscope. The concept is beautifully simple. The sphere is heavier at the bottom, and it floats in some sort of liquid. Gravity does the rest. If you tilt the body, the inner sphere stays level. The sphere appears to be translucent. You can see the dark metal through the milky substance it floats in. The interior is dimly lit though there is no apparent light source. There are no windows of any kind.
The floor of the chamber is flat, split into two crescent-shaped decks. The rear one is raised about three feet, with two steps on each side to get down to the front section. It seems designed to accommodate two people, two pilots. I call them animators. I like the puppet analogy better since it’s not really a ship. 
