On the 16th of September new guidelines to help governments and companies develop AI policies considering children needs were released. This was the result of a collaboration between Steve Vosloo and UNICEF. It is possible to access information from their different workshops directly on their site: Screenshot of UNICEF’s website the 4th of October 2020 Automatic decision-making and frameworks constructed in code are on a direct and aggregated level making a difference in the lives of children around the world connected to digital devices or environments. It can. record their voice, influence speech and work through recommendations. At the same time more children are now at an earlier age being introduced to technology. In an article in MIT Technology Review by Karen Hao one of the key figures in the development of the report, Steve Vosloo – a policy specialist for digital connectivity at Unicef, the United Nations Children Fund, was quoted to say: “Because they are developing intellectually and emotionally and physically, they are very shapeable.” The guidelines are meant to address themes that are already being discussed and tailor these to children. According to the same article Karen Hao argues that there are not only negative, but also possibilities for children, writing: “Emotional AI assistants, though relatively nascent, could provide mental-health support and have been demonstrated to improve the social skills of autistic children. Face recognition, used with careful limitations, could help identify children who’ve been kidnapped or trafficked.” In addition to this there is the argument of educating kids about AI. “The Beijing Academy of Artificial Intelligence (BAAI), an organization backed by the Chinese Ministry of Science and Technology and the Beijing municipal government, released a set of AI principles for children too. The announcement follows a year after BAAI released the Beijing AI principles, understood to be the guiding values for China’s national AI development. AI applications are already being rolled out in many countries. Therefore, it makes sense to begin implementing these guidelines and to think about how children use technology in conjunction with limitations that may have to be placed on certain companies or digital environments.



While an entire generation of children is growing up with AI, family members are still wondering how might they best support their youngsters to critically understand and interact with smart devices. Parents are still questioning if and how they should use these new technologies in their homes. Families are trying to reconcile their fear of having their children left behind if not exposed to new smart technologies with their concern for personal data privacy. The more tech-savvy parents recognize the limitation of existing voice assistants for youth (i.e., 84.6% of Alexa kid skills do not provide privacy policies) and even wrote petitions to the appropriate regulators urging an investigation into Amazon’s violations of the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA). Meanwhile, there are over 110 million virtual assistant users in the United States alone and more and more families are welcoming voice assistants into their homes. In our previous studies, we found that children become more skeptical of AI smarts when they learn how to program and train their own smart games, moreover, we found that parental attitudes and perceptions of AI technologies can influence how children perceive and attribute intelligence to smart devices. One question still remained: what happens when children and parents learn about AI together? To answer this question we used our prior co-design sessions with families to create 11 learning activities for family AI literacy. We invited 15 families from all over the USA to participate in a 5-week in-home study. Families spoke more than 10 languages other than English and had a variety of backgrounds and levels of exposure to smart devices. Each family got to learn more about image classification, machine learning, voice assistants and they also got to design and analyze their own AI assistants. Children lead the activities both in the image classification and machine learning sessions. Parents acted primarily as collaborators, mentors, and teachers. There were also three instances of families with older children where parents learned from their children’s logic and AI observations. Children would come up with scenarios for future AI applications that parents had not considered, such as involving scientists and experts in the process of crowd-sourcing image classification games. Parents would suggest different edge cases for the child to test their custom image classification models by picking different objects with similar shapes, picking objects of the same color, or rotating initial objects. When playing the “Compare with Voice Assistant” game, family members got to contrast answers to specific questions between a voice assistant and a family member. This allowed them to reflect and discuss what data should stay private and what questions are not meant for an assistant to answer. When drawing what is inside a voice assistant and how it works both children and parents made their assumptions and understanding of AI explicit. Thinking more closely about family privacy and the sensors inside a voice assistant informed the families' next activity where they got to design their own AI assistant. Family members considered carefully how to negotiate trade-offs between ease of use (i.e., talking to devices) vs. the risk of potential algorithmic bias (i.e., voice models not detecting accents or children’s voices). We found that our learning activities enabled families with different perceptions, attitudes, and knowledge about AI to engage in the following learning processes successfully: exploring multi-modal and embodied situated practices with AI, developing AI conceptual learning, engaging in critical framing of AI, and reflecting on future meaningful uses of AI at home. Embodied and tangible activities best-supported families to engage in all these learning processes (in particular the “Train AI” and the “AI BingoGame”). Designing activities that support multiple forms of participation, for both children and parents, created the potential for authentic interactions and expansive learning.
AI Literacy practices and skills led some families to consider making meaningful use of AI devices they already have in their homes and re-design their interactions with them. As sometimes parents and children in our study differed in their experiences, opinions, interpretations, and imagined futures of AI behavior, the home became a transformative space for AI literacies where the potential for an expanded form of learning and the development of new knowledge was heightened. These findings suggest that families have the potential to act as a third space for AI learning!





Humans find different ways to express their feelings. When we are little, we can’t communicate very well through words and voice because we are still learning to write and speak, so drawings are a special resource to express our emotions and our relationship with the family and even other things in the world. Drawings give us a tremendous idea about children’s fears, joys, nightmares, experiences and also personalities. A drawing contains every key information about them. It’s not a definitive way to get to know the child, let’s accept it, sometimes, it means nothing, it’s just a product of getting fun but sometimes the drawing can reveal what they are feeling and thinking in that moment. Detecting children’s emotions through their drawings is an old technique and very used by psychology professionals. You may have been part of these common tests made at school when you were little. Therapists use different techniques involving drawings to evaluate children’s emotions and maturity. One of the most popular is the Family Drawing Test. The Family Drawing Test gives an understanding of how the child perceives their closest relationships. It’s a simple way to understand the quality of the relationships and communication, and how children construct their reality based on family relationships. This technique has been here for over six decades. Psychiatrist Miles Porot created it in 1951 and it’s now one of the most common techniques used to evaluate the personalities of children between 5 to 16. There are other similar techniques like the Tree Test. Artificial Intelligence in Drawing techniques After reading about this interesting tool, came up with this great idea of combining the old technique and Artificial Intelligence to detect different children’s emotions, extracting representative features from each category, so we can decode children’s drawings and assign an specific emotion. By far, I consider this is a great use of Artificial Intelligence. I can imagine how this AI model can help psychologists and therapists in schools. I don’t pretend this can replace the hard work done everyday, but can be of much help. A computer vision model can speed up the work and help to diagnose children. Creating a labeled dataset. I couldn’t find papers or datasets about this idea to start this experiment, so I took the job to create a new dataset. I read from different sources about how to decode children’s drawings depending on the color, shapes, positions, style and other different aspects about the drawing. I’m not a psychology or therapist but found out very interesting information about these drawings and their potential. I must tell, my search for drawings on the internet was really heartbreaking and an eye-opener experience. I was shocked by seeing real children’s drawings from different websites. Most of them were part of Art Therapy programs to heal children that experimented symptoms related to Post Traumatic Stress Disorders (PTSD). Other kind of drawings I found were about child abuse and domestic violence. I also found drawings from children whose parents divorced. So after collecting a good amount of children’s drawings, the next task was to label the dataset. This is what I found on the Internet that helped me to label the dataset: Type of drawing depending the gender (shapes and colors). We can find differences between girl and boy’s drawings. It’s very true that girls prefer to use pink and soft colors while boys prefer cooler colors like blue. Also shapes vary. Girls will typically draw rounded shapes such flowers, hearts while boys will do angles, boxes, straighter lines, along with cars, buses and rockets. It’s very common they draw something representative of their gender. Let’s talk more about the color There’s much more behind the color they use in their drawings: Let’s start with black and purple. These colors suggest dominance and can be favored by a child who is relatively demanding. Blue is popular with children who have a caring nature and enjoy company. Red represents excitement and it’s commonly used by children that don’t want to miss out on anything. Pink, girl’s favorite color shows need for love and appreciation. Green is the color of those who enjoy being different. Mostly, for kids that are artistic and intelligent. Yellow is a happy color and demonstrates intelligence and a sunny nature. Personality depending the style The way children draw also reveals important information about their personality. Detailed and elaborated drawings reveal a child who feels the need to try very hard. Bold strokes, especially if close together can be a sign of stress, strong feelings, determination or anger, while soft marks express gentler nature. Quality of the line is very important, too. A figure drawn with light, wavering, broken lines, reveals a hesitant, insecure child who appears to think as he goes along. By contrast the bold, continual, freely drawn line is expressive of self-confidence, and a feeling of security. You may have heard about this one, but the absence of arms is sometimes interpreted as indicating timidity, a sign of non-aggressive children, whereas exaggerating the size of the hands is seen as symbolic of aggressive tendencies if the figure is a self-portrait. Likewise, tiny feet are seen as a sign of insecurity, literally an unstable foundation. Position of the drawing I also found on the internet that position is very important in the drawing. The left side is commonly associated with the past and with nurturing, also with mother. The right side is the opposite and is related with the future,the need to communicate and also with fathers. Sizes also matter, a child who places a drawing of a good size on the page is considered to be a well-balanced and secure, while small figures drawn at or near the lower edge of the paper, or in a corner express insecurity. What about shapes? An impulsive child may draw big figures, no necks, and asymmetry of limbs. An anxious child would do clouds, rain, flying birds, no eyes on the figures. A shy child will typically draw short figures, no nose or mouth, tiny figures and arms close to the body like hiding something behind. An angry child would do big hands and teeth, long arms and crossed eyes. An insecure child is similar to a shy one, and will draw monstrous figures, tiny head, no hands and slanted figures. Creating the classes I found it kind of hard to create categories. There are many emotions a child can express. So, what I did is to focus on 3 categories: Happiness Anxiety and Depression Anger and Violence The reason I did that it’s because a drawing can express many feelings, some feelings are similar, so I combined some of them in the same category. When I saw the drawings about the war, I saw violence, anger and sadness. Drawings about domestic violence and children experiencing parents divorce expressed anxiety and depression. So, it was easy for me to combine Anger and Violence for drawings about war, children drawing themselves with angry faces or figures expressing violence. 






The period between the ages of three and seven is a very important time for child development. At this age, a child’s brain is like a sponge for information. In fact, the social, communication and language skills learned at this young age can influence a person’s entire life. The use of educational robots aids child development in several fun and interactive ways — and here are five of the most effective. 1. They Teach Different Languages Research shows that young children find learning new languages much easier than adolescents and adults. An educational robot can introduce the basics of many languages, and slowly build on them through a combination of relevant discourse and fun games. If you can introduce your child to a robot at the age of three, there’s a good chance they’ll have a reasonable grasp of the language you’ve chosen by the age of seven. 2. They Nurture Compassion and Empathy Children learn about compassion, empathy and kindness from the people around them. And the more kids witness positive behaviors, the more they’re reinforced. Educational robots lead by example in this respect. The most technologically advanced models have the ability to read your child’s facial expressions. When your child laughs, the robot laughs along. But when your child cries, the robot does the same. Not only do this teach empathy and compassion, it provides your child with a sensitive friend. 3. They Provide Growth Reports Parents want to know that their children are developing well, learning from the world around them and displaying positive personality traits. Instead of guessing or relying on the anecdotal feedback from teachers, relatives and friends, you can see your child’s development via detailed reports. When goals or certain activities have been noticed by the report, alerts are sent directly to you — the proud parent. But when your child’s development is falling short, you’ll know straight away, allowing you to investigate and intervene as quickly as possible. 4. They Educate in a Fun Way Children take in an amazing amount of information between the ages of three and seven. And you can help this process along by making learning fun. An educational robot can teach your kids about everything from geography to math. But rather than simply reading out a list of facts and figures, the robot gets the point across with fun games. This interactive approach engages children, and holds their attention for longer. 5. They Develop Communication Skills The latest educational robots can speak and interact with children — listening to the child’s responses and offering coherent responses. In fact, cutting-edge robot technology allows for a conversation on a range of subjects. Particularly if your child doesn’t have siblings, this technology could prove invaluable in your home. Whether it’s playtime or learning time, the constant interaction between child and robot cultivates communication skills and improves reasoning. Robots also encourage children to ask questions and be inquisitive about the world around them. So when your child starts first grade, they’ll be ready to converse with their teachers and friends from the very first morning. An educational robot is far more than a toy. It’s a friend, a teacher and a role model. Give your child the best start in life by making a robot an honorary member of your family.




Machine Learning is becoming more and more popular in the world of art. However, some people like to think that AI cannot create the same thoughts as humans, but how do we know? We all have the potential to become prodigies in thinking. AI can increase our potential by teaching us different ways of thinking. But on the other hand, humans can use AI art to bring more equal opportunities to all children. Mlearning.ai Art is one of the tools that can help achieve this goal. Lots of people come to me with questions about AI art. The below question interested me because of the topic: “Machine learning algorithms for my daughter painting I have read an article about you, and I have decided to contact you. My five years old daughter likes to make drawings. I wonder if you can help us use machine learning algorithms for that drawings. I hope to hear from you soon. Thank you very much.” Today’s children are growing up with iPads and are used to digital interaction. It is natural for them to be more familiar with technology than previous generations to negotiate new tools in the same way toddlers learn to use a spoon. AI art is one of the tools that can help achieve this goal. It allows children to express themselves in various ways through creative games, stories, and drawings. As a result, all children have the potential to be prodigies in thinking. A new perspective. A new idea. A new approach. If you desire to be fulfilled in life, you need to invest in your Art education. Art education is essential for success. We are all too familiar with saying that education is the key to being well-rounded and successful. However, art education opens up the door to opportunities that would have never been available without it. Simply put, it could be argued that getting an art education essentially equates to investing in yourself. Your education starts with your art, but it doesn’t end there. Art is essentially limitless in the connections and associations it can draw between different ideas. Art allows you to see your world in a new way, from a different perspective. It would help if you got out of your comfort zone to realize how vast the world is. Many barriers hold us back from becoming true artists when it comes to art. The first step would be being bold enough and self-confident enough to allow yourself to express art in all its forms. This is important because it will enable you to connect with your inner self and your true identity. The second step to becoming an artist would be researching the rules and elements of art. You might find rules limiting and discouraging, but that’s the beauty of art. Without limitations, there would be no creativity. The third step is embracing criticism — the good and the bad — because it will help you grow as an artist. The AI is the onset of a new form of art that can help make all children — with any starting point — become prodigies in thinking. This AI has the potential to create opportunities for children that would otherwise be impossible without it, especially when it comes to getting an education. Learning and growing can be perceived as intuitive processes that involve various advantages and disadvantages. If individuals reach the same understanding at a later stage by reflecting on the learning process, they will have different characteristics than those who take shortcuts and learn blindly.



I grew up in a small town in Transylvania, and will always remember the day when I assembled my first computer and loaded the first mp3 songs and movies on it. At the time we didn’t yet have Internet in my home, and I was exchanging files via CDs with my friends and my father’s colleagues. By the time I went to college, my campus had its own intranet, and my friends and I built up a collection of hundreds of albums, television series, movies, software packages, anything you could imagine. It was as if all of the students were part of this giant web, seeding and peering on torrents while constantly exchanging the latest school news in forums and chat rooms. Later, I used the internet to find my first internship abroad, master’s scholarship, job, and apartment. I also founded a global community of young makers and hackers — HacKIDemia — where kids could connect and exchange knowledge via videos, social groups, and local events: all thanks to this new medium that was breaking down geographic and institutional borders. I was part of the first wave of the internet generation, and now, looking back at my childhood, I realize how lucky this was. I grew up in a small town in a post-communist country and was the first in my family to go to college and study abroad; because of the internet, I had opportunities to connect and work with people from all over the world on meaningful and fun projects. Being a child that grew up with the web expanded my perspective on what is possible and it allowed me to participate in global conversations and projects while becoming a global citizen. After reflecting on my own childhood, I can’t help but wonder what this experience will look like for today’s children, who are not just growing up with the web, but are also the first generation of kids to grow up with artificial intelligence (AI) in their daily lives. Recently, we’ve seen both the potential and the challenges of a global, connected community. While I was enchanted with the power of the web growing up, I now recognize its power through social media to overturn governments or manipulate large groups of people. We are finally starting to have the hard conversations around the ethics and policies that large companies and governments around the world need to start implementing in order to prevent future abuses. In this context, I believe it is more crucial than ever to teach young people and their families to have a critical understanding of the new AI technologies and devices that are already part of their homes and lives. New technologies are intimidating at first–the railroad, telegraph, automobiles, television, or personal computers all caused concern and even fear before they became commonplace. Young users drive adoption: kids just don’t have the same filters and fears as adults, and are more open to exploring what’s new. This fearlessness in turn inspires the adults around them to approach the new in more playful ways. There are ten million Alexa devices in the US alone, and Alexa for children was just released last week by Amazon. AI is in our lives, homes, and pockets and it’s safe to say it’s not going away. Providing kids with the tools and access to AI education will create a generation who are not simply passive consumers of this technology but, rather, active creators and shapers of its future. As a Media Lab student, I believe that the best way to achieve critical understanding of something is to build or program it, and I want to provide families the option to do that with their smart toys and devices–and that’s why I created Cognimates. Cognimates is a platform based on the Scratch programming language which provides a unique library of tools and activities for AI education. With it, parents and children (7–10 years old) participate in creative programming activities where they learn how to build games, program robots, and train their own AI models. Some of the activities are mediated by embodied intelligent agents, which help learners scaffold learning and collaborate more effectively. Empowering children to lead the way in the purposeful use of technology is not a new idea. In fact, the MIT Media Lab was co-founded by visionaries like Seymour Papert and Marvin Minsky, who both believed that young generations could inspire us to think and learn with and about technology in different ways. To do this, Papert created Logo, the first programming language for children (and a precursor of Scratch)–back when computers were still the size of an entire room and only available to a handful of researchers in academic centers. Minsky wrote multiple essays inviting parents and schools to teach children how human learning and reasoning work by drawing parallels and lessons from cybernetics. Our ideas about psychology are still developing so rapidly that it wouldn’t make sense for us to select any current “theory of thinking” to teach. So instead, we’ll propose a different approach: to provide our children with ideas they could use to invent their own theories about themselves! Building on these ideas and the early work of Sherry Turkle and her seminal book Second Self — which explores how children could interrogate and explore their own nature while playing and interacting with “relational artifacts” (such as Tamagotchi and Real Baby doll) — I created the Cognimates platform. The name pays tribute to the work of Edith Ackermann; in her research, Ackermann called the toys with which children would engage “AniMates,” and she describes them as “playthings that do things.” Before joining the Media Lab I designed STEAM education workshops and kits for children and parents, and while doing so noticed how schools, governments, and families became more supportive of maker education for children, seeing coding as a new form of literacy. The next frontier is artificial intelligence, which will completely change not only how we interact with and learn about technology, but also how we teach programming. If we want to tap into children’s natural fluency with exploring, modifying, and appropriating new technologies they grew up with, or “kids power” as Papert calls it, we need to find ways to allow them not only to consume but also to create and customize new AI games, devices, and toys So far we’ve been testing Cognimates with more than 150 children in four countries since I built the first version of the platform in beginning of the year. Ever since I also recruited a very talented and passionate team of undergraduate students to help with platform development and family workshops. Based on our ongoing studies in schools and and after schools programs in the Greater Boston Area we created a series of starter projects and learning guides which are currently available on our website. I will share below a couple of examples of our projects and activities while underlying what key concepts children are learning from them. Program games that learn over time Children already love to play games and create their own games in Scratch. With our Cognimates Extensions we allow them to build games that learn over time as they are playing them. For example our workshop participants trained a Rock Paper Scissors game to recognize their gestures. Every time the game makes a mistake the children can teach it what the correct answer was and make the game smarter over time. This allows them to learn how computer vision works and supervised learning works and how they could teach the computer or a robot to recognize a specific object from a collection of things and correct its errors such that it becomes better over time. Most of the children we’ve been working with are already familiar with chatbots and conversational agents like Siri and Alexa but they wanted to create a chatbot that would be able to pick-up on more subtle messages such as backhanded compliments. So they built a game where a dog would jump around and act happy if they would tell it a happy message or act confused and inquisitive if they would give it a fake compliment like “you are kind of brave.” Many of our extensions allow children to start programing IoT devices like HueLights or Wemo Plugs and teach smart assistants like Alexa how to answer specific questions, leave messages for other people, or run code via voice. As many of these devices already exist in the homes, we wanted to provide children a way to customize and control these devices and create immersive, whimsical, and magical experiences such as the “Alice in Wonderland” project in the following video.







Without going so much into technical details, I recommend to parents who want to introduce their children to Artificial Intelligence to seek for reliable sources of information that can help them explain to their children the importance of Artificial Intelligence and its impact on our society. It may be a challenging time for someone who has not played with these subjects before, and then you have to navigate in dark and unknown waters right in front of your kids. It happens more often than you can imagine. Fortunately for all of us, there are plenty of resources available to support us on the Internet. In that case, all you have to do is to put your children sitting at your side. I suggest building your personal curriculum of knowledge about A.I. that includes at least some of the following topics: Basic concepts of artificial Intelligence and computational thinking. Examples of technological, educational, and cultural experiences. The history of the Internet and the computer. The importance of technological advances for improving people’s lives. Challenges and problems capable of inspiring attitudes of solidarity, cooperation, and respect. An ethical reflection on the impact of technology and Artificial Intelligence on sustainable life, environment, work, and social relations Suppose you manage to research and learn the basics of those topics. In that case, I believe you will be prepared to sustain any Artificial Intelligence conversation with your children. You don’t need a Ph.D. or a Masters’s Degree to entertain your three-year-old while she asks you what’s is Siri… your knowledge about the topics I’ve mentioned before can grow together with your children as they will advance their capacity to understand more complex concepts. Taking the first steps There are some basic steps you should consider to make if you want to help your children to understand Artificial Intelligence or A.I. with their own words and most of the time it starts with finding the simple examples to explain these concepts to them. You can use examples like these: “A.I. is that thing that makes machines perform tasks that we consider possible only with human Intelligence. Machine learning is simply one of the ways that machines can use to make A.I. works.” When starting conversations with my daughters or any other children about A.I., I sometimes like to use simple examples that correlate robots and other tangible elements in their imagination to explain the concepts. The following is one example of dialogue that I recently have with one of my daughters about the difference between traditional programming and Artificial Intelligence. “Computers normally needs people to tell them what to do and how to react. Now we have machines that can learn, just like you and me. This is an amazing thing if you consider that there are robots that can make their own decisions, and it is given to them by Artificial Intelligence.” It might seem an oversimplification of A.I., but I used this explanation with my kids and every time they managed to visualize it exactly as I explained it. They asked me many follow up questions, and many pictures popped into their curious mindless by this simple story. I think it would be a good idea to let your child learn more about Artificial Intelligence by comparing it to similar things that already are present in their lives. One fantastic example that I like to use in conversations with about A.I. with children and teenagers was given by Michael Milford, author of The Complete Guide to Artificial Intelligence for Kids: “Many people, for example, have a pet dog, and they may have even at a young age tried to train their dog to do tricks. Training artificial intelligence…is very similar to that process.” Michael Milford [4] Another great example illustrating machine learning and Artificial Intelligence is the Laundroid, a Laundry-folding machine built by Seven Dreamers Laboratories. When you pick clothes to be sent to the laundromat, the Machine scans each object, compares it to a database to learn about it, and then makes folding decisions based on what the database tells it. It will take about 10 minutes for the robot to learn how to fold each object. You can use this as an example of how technology can learn from its failures and why it will be a moving target for years to come. Much as the next generation of technology will be trying to make technology work for us when it should not, like folding laundry. [5][1] Some resources to start exploring A.I. with your children There are endless tools and YouTube videos on the Internet that can inspire you to discover A.I., computer science, and machine learning with your kids. These are all fields of knowledge that several professionals, teachers, psychologists, and others dedicate a lot of time to better explain this technology’s principles to adults and children. Here you have a list with some resources I have selected: · To start, a fascinating article by Saturday Kids called “Teaching Kids about Artificial Intelligence” basically goes into some background about A.I. and why it matters for our children to start to understand it. · After understanding, what it is and realizing that your kids will use it all their lives, the time has come to have some fun with it. The article called “Explaining A.I. to children” by Alexiei Dingli , professor of A.I. at the University of Malta, has tons of resources online that you and your children can use. · In the article “Explain A.I. to me like I’m a 5-year-old…or a CEO” on Medium.com by integrate.ai , Tyler Schnoebelen, provide us two definitions of A.I.: one for CEOs and one that kids can easily understand. Every Parent should read the first part of the article and then concentrate on the latter section’s Machine learning part. · Alishah Novin , an engineer, discusses how computers and games’ machine learning are close in the article in Hackernoon.com, “Coding Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning with Kids Using … Starbursts?”, where he recommends using Starburst candies for machine learning. Even without a computer, A.I. can be proven with a small bag of sweets. · A.I. was addressed in Beanz, an online and printed magazine for kids interested in Computer Science. They offer an example of a child touching a hot stove and instantly finding out that it is hot. This could be defined as Reinforcement Learning. · In the article “15 Examples of Artificial Intelligence You’re Using in Daily Life” by Rachit Agarwal, you can find examples of using A.I. technology can be seen in Siri, video games, and music movie recommendation services like Netflix. You should refer to this list when your children ask you about the artificial Intelligence they already use. · Also, Sherol Chen is an excellent source of knowledge with her lovely article: “How to Explain A.I. to Kids” where she shares a three-step method for educating kids about A.I. This involves questions like “why do computers exist?” “How can we build better machines?” She also shares videos and games to teach children what A.I. is about. · More advanced knowledge can be found on the page “Machine Learning for Kids” which shares a comprehensive list of tools and resources for explaining artificial Intelligence to children. Suppose you are a parent, a caretaker, or work on children’s education. In that case, this book is a useful tool that will help you to understand how you can prepare your kids for the future job market through ethical and conscious technology awareness. Covering the basics of A.I., Robotics, and Coding, the book will give you an up-to-date overview of how these technologies impact children’s skills development and how they can be prepared for the job market future. It will also help you build confidence when facing the digital era’s ethical challenges and navigate technological devices’ potential pitfalls.





Robonetica is more than a robotics company. Even though we’re just one year old, the idea of Robonetica came up way earlier. Being part of Kinetic, we believe in the power of robotics and AI for many years. We started Robonetica with the dream of conquering new worlds with the power of human intelligence and engineering. With the vision of democratizing AI and robotics by making tech and knowledge available to teenagers around the world for free. AI will conquer the world — let’s make today’s teenagers the superhero Robotics and AI will change our near future dramatically — they will affect the way we work, live, drive and the whole society in general. Understanding AI will become almost as important as reading and writing. But we’re not prepared for that, yet. The problem is that today, we’re already missing the experts to understand and use these technologies. Compared to the need, there are only a few people in the world who truly understand AI and robotics. This is why we’re convinced that we have to introduce these technologies to teenagers — because, if AI is going to change our everyday life and robots will be all around in a few years, today’s kids and teenagers will be the engineers that build this future. Gaming, Mars and Kids: The Red Planet Project In order to reach teenagers and students and spark their interest in technology, we had to break new grounds, adjust to the language of the young and use their platforms. We needed a new approach on education. And which platforms are kids on? Exactly, games. We started an educational program for AI and robotics allowing teenagers all over the world to learn how to code and build robots themselves — wrapped in a beautiful adventure smartphone game, the “Red Planet Project”. The game is based on a simulation environment for serious robotics, enriched with an entertaining story, becoming an exciting adventure where players build a robot to explore Mars autonomously. The game teaches the players how to code the robot and make it intelligent to send their robot on an expedition to the red planet. Turning games into educational programs For the players, the Red Planet Project can be more than just a fun game on their smartphone: In a three-level worldwide competition, the individual robots compete against each other. First, the best 1,000 players are invited to one of five events on five continents, where their robot continues his mission to Mars in AR on-site. After another qualifying round, 5 winners are chosen at the final event. But the prize is not just a trophy or money, the winners get exclusive scholarships for some of the most prestigious technical universities in the world such as the MIT or the Oxford Robotics Institute. The competition takes place every year, but all players are continuously learning as the game itself never stops. Besides coding and knowledge of AI and Robotics, the “Red Planet Project” teaches kids that they can reach different worlds with the power of intelligence and engineering. It’s about showing the beauty of our environments and the possibilities of brains. Because you can’t teach a robot how to be alive (autonomously) just like that. There’s always an environment around it. Robonetica brings students closer together with new environments. We educate them about space in the Red Planet Project, on the environment in general and on sustainability in the Amazon game that’s coming next. We want to encourage young people to explore the world, send their robot to Amazon while being in London and together discover these new environments — while being in London. We want to show kids that they are able to reach different countries, continents and worlds with the power of their intelligence, combined with engineering skills. The games are available for download for free, for everyone, because we believe that teenagers shouldn’t have to pay to get access to technology. It is crucial to make education and new technologies easy available for them in order to spark their creativity and passion for new innovations. As our partner, Porsche supports the idea of giving access to the newest tech and believes in the promising impact of technology on young people all over the world. To spread the word, Porsche invited us to join them at re;publica 2019 in Berlin, where we showcased the Red Planet Project and had the chance to bring our mission closer to the young German digital scene. We know from history that teenagers always have been and always will be our future engineers, especially when it comes to the development and usage of new technologies. Our partner Porsche knows this quite well: There once was a young guy who worked as a mechanic in an engineering company at the end of the 19th century. At the age of 17, he had access to the newest technology of that time — and a progressive idea in mind. He makes his way very fast to the manager of the testing department in an electricity company to then engineer an electrical hub motor at the age of 21, followed by the first ever hybrid and all-wheel vehicle ever just three years later, in 1899. This is the story of the young Ferdinand Porsche. Without him getting access to technology at an early age, he would neither have been inspired nor have had the possibility to realize his vision — to build the first car in the world. Now think of Bill Gates, Elon Musk, Marc Zuckerberg and other great innovators. The greatest achievements of successful technology companies do mostly not rest upon well-educated middle-aged managers, but young teenagers that understand the potential of new technologies. And there’s only one thing that’s required: access to modern technologies and related knowledge and education. We at Robonetica want to provide that. We have committed us to the mission of making technologies and knowledge available to teenagers around the world for free.





As with so many other families and companies during the COVID-19 pandemic, Anno.Ai team members have had to adjust to new patterns of working, child care, and schooling for our children. One of the many ways we’ve sought to support each other and our Anno.Ai family during this time is by sharing educational activities and resources with each other. As an AI/ML company, many of these resources and ideas have included ways to involve our kids in fun machine learning and computer programming activities. Here, we wanted to share a few of our favorites as well as some DIY activities you can try at home. Enjoy! Online ML Learning Resources for Kids Here are some of our favorite online platforms for training models and exploring machine learning. These have simple user interfaces and are designed for kids to learn and experiment. Google Teachable Machine The Teachable Machine website provides an easy to use interface for training image, sound, and pose classification models. No login is required to get started. Training data files can be loaded directly from your computer or from your computer’s webcam or microphone. The initial view keeps things simple for the user, but if they want, kids can dig deeper to explore advanced options like adjusting the number of epochs, batch size, and learning rate, or get tips on common ML vocabulary. Models can be exported to use in other projects, and the FAQ includes links to read more about fairness and inclusion in ML. IBM’s Machine Learning for Kids Activity Kit IBM’s Machine Learning for Kids website provides a range of free step-by-step guides and hands-on model building activities designed to support both teachers and parents who are involved with teaching their kids at home. The online interface provides an easy way to train a model to recognize text, images, numbers, voices, and sounds. To get started, you will need to create a free account on IBM Cloud and an API key for Watson cloud services to train machine learning models. Google’s Quick, Draw! The Quick, Draw! website is a fun game for all ages to draw simple sketches of everyday objects and contribute those to training a neural network. The data can also be searched and displayed by class, which we’ve found is a fun way for even toddlers and younger kids to interact with the data and point out drawings of their favorite objects (e.g., teddy-bears, bulldozers, tractors, cats, and dogs). ML Playground The Machine Learning Playground is a web-based demo that lets you draw point patterns, configure parameters, and analyze/classify the data using a range of different ML algorithms (KNN, Perceptron, SVN, ANN, and Decision Tree). The ML Playground is probably most suited for older kids who have some basic familiarity with these terms and want to explore and visualize how the algorithms behave on real data. DIY Data Collection and Models At Anno.Ai, we occasionally get our extended families involved in data collection, especially around topics and objects that are interesting for kids. For example, during a project on handwritten text recognition, we had some of our team members and relatives help with creating test data by writing out the preamble to the United States Constitution. This also ended up being a fun way for our youngest team members to practice handwriting, learn a little more about the history of the Constitution, and get involved in the ML process! A fun DIY activity you can do with your kids is to have them collect images of things that they’re interested in (horses, garbage trucks, LEGOs, cartoon or game characters, kittens… the list goes on) and train their own image classifier using one of the in-browser platforms such as Teachable Machine. We’ve provided some images that you can use to get started with a LEGO detection and color sorting model here. Kid-Inspired AI/ML As parents interested and involved in AI/ML, this extra time with our kids has also been an opportunity to observe and focus more on how children learn, and the ways we can advance AI/ML by integrating principals from human learning and cognition. For further reading on these types of approaches, we recommend Alison Gopnik’s work on learning to learn, and have included some additional references below.

Just as smartphones and social networks offer connectivity far beyond our imagination, robots are beginning to show physical capabilities, artificial intelligence (A.I.), and cognitive skills far beyond our expectations. Together, these technologies can help solve significant challenges such as aging societies, environmental threats, and global conflicts. How will our daily lives be in this not-so-distant future? Science fiction explored these possibilities for centuries. We are already living in a time when robots can clean our homes, drive our vehicles, disable bombs, offer prosthetic limbs, help with surgical procedures, produce products, entertain, teach and surprise.[1] Our lives are likely to be even longer, with synthetic organs replacing defective parts of our bodies, nanoscale medical interventions allowing correct disease and genetic targeting, as well as autonomous vehicles that can reduce traffic fatalities. Our jobs will change dramatically — some jobs will cease to exist, and new jobs will appear, e.g., developing robot service applications to be made available in our homes on robot platforms. The way our education develops will also radically change. Our senses and brains can be improved artificially. Our ability to reflect on new knowledge gained from automated analysis of large amounts of data will require a different way to handle information in schools. Nevertheless, how do we relate to a civilization that includes robots? How do we find each other, keep relationships, and raise children? To what extent mixes robots and humans? Many of us wonder if A.I. becomes so intelligent and capable in human communication that the boundaries between humans and artificial beings are erased. Suppose it is possible to communicate naturally and build meaningful interaction with an artificial agent over time. Will there still be a division in our relationships with people and technology? Moreover, what will it mean to be “human” since A.I. and robotics improve our human bodies and minds? Where are the robots? It only takes few minutes to read any technology news today to convince you that robots are more and more being introduced in various fields of activity and industries, whether to assemble cars or perform medical and diagnostic surgeries, the machines already among us. However, robots are not in the industries only. They also give us capabilities we do not have in the real world, in our daily lives. My favorite examples are autonomous vehicles and drones. Every day, computers, machines, and robots are getting better at replicating all our technical skills. Fortunately, they are still unlikely to replicate our behavioral and socio-emotional skills. In the labor market, technological innovations such as robotic arms have a lot of value to offer. Science fiction films have even pictured some of the most intriguing scenarios in which robots enslave human beings. I am currently writing my book about it. However, this is a fascinating story indeed… but if we stick to reality, it is natural to understand that we need to put aside our fears and differences and work together with the machines. That is why it is essential to know it, prepare for the future, and most importantly, have fun learning and experimenting with it. A most important, it is essential to support our children to understand this technology for their future.
