Sato lay on the cement floor of the workshop in a pool of his own blood and tried desperately to get Kuro-4's legs working again. The robot, in turn, tried to deal with the gaping wounds in Sato's smashed leg and pelvis. Go stones were all over the floor, scattered like black and white drops of rock. Go had been one of the few games Sato and Kuro-4 could play together to pass the time. AIs had trouble with Go, and Sato could hold his own against Kuro-4. Sometimes he even won. The Go stones had rested in two worn wooden bowls on the table by the main hatch; now they were mixed together on the floor, blood and hydraulic oil oozing around them like a slow river. Sato twisted his torso, torqued the wrench, and finally popped the release that allowed the panel on Kuro-4's lower back to slide open. The effort made Sato's head spin. Outside, the cold Martian winds buffeted the workshop walls, causing the metal to groan. The asteroid strike had heated the alloy, but now the temperature was falling back to normal. The lights overhead dimmed, but stayed on. The wry eyes on Kuro-4's facescreen studied Sato's worried face. "If the impact left even a third of the solar panels intact," Kuro-4 said, "that should be enough to keep life support going." Sato grunted. Sweat poured down his face. "If I don't get your legs working, it won't matter." All the suits were in the decom chamber, and the asteroid had torn that room in half. Rescue would take 44 days to arrive, and if Kuro-4 couldn't walk to bring back supplies, Sato wouldn't last half that long. "Well, work faster," Kuro-4 said. "You're letting me win. I've already managed to repair three of your major blood vessels." "Out of how many?" Kuro-4 was silent. "You've got it easy," Sato said. "No pain." "On the other hand, the mechanisms you're working on are simple compared to the human body." "It repairs itself; what could be simpler?" Kuro-4 smiled. They lay on the floor side by side for almost an hour, a yin and yang of metal and flesh. They talked back and forth, each contending their job was harder, that they were winning the competition to see who could fix the other first. Neither admitted how scared they were. Eventually, Sato's hands went numb. Reassembling Kuro-4's servo had been difficult enough when he could feel the pieces. Foggy and frustrated, Sato lay back on the floor and struggled to catch his breath. The cement felt soft, like a down pillow. When Sato looked up, Kuro-4 was studying him again. "What's that face?" Sato asked. "What are you thinking about?" "Back home. AIs aren't recognized as living beings." Sato struggled to sit up. "Why are you thinking about that now?" "The network says the other buildings are breached, which probably means you're the only living human in the complex. If you die, they won't spend the money on an evac mission to save me." The dark eyes on Kuro-4's facescreen were weary and afraid. "I'm in here, Sato. I know I can't prove it, but I'm in here." Sato put a hand on Kuro-4's shoulder. "I know you are." They worked in silence. Once, Sato almost fell asleep. A few times, he forgot where he was. Finally, Sato said, "Fire up your voice recorder." "Why?" Sato blinked to stay awake. "I'm dying, Kuro. Fire it up." A blinking red dot and jagged green line took the place of Kuro-4's face. "I lost," Kuro-4 said blankly. "I couldn't save you." "Hush," Sato said. "I'm recording." Sato cleared his throat, summoned the last of his strength, and willed his voice to clear. Then he spoke: "Command, visual is on the fritz, so I'm in audio-only." "This is Sato. Still scraping by. I'm really anxious to see you all." "Quick status report..." Sato continued until he had said everything he thought Kuro-4 would need. Kuro-4 listened in silence, the green line on his facescreen spiking along with Sato's voice. When the recording was over and Kuro-4's facescreen returned to normal, there were tears streaming down his artificial cheeks. "Recut that any way you need to, to make them think I'm still alive," Sato said. "Then they'll have to come." Kuro-4 smiled through his tears. "I don't know what to say. I'm never going to be able to top this." Sato took Kuro-4's cold metal hand, smiled, and faded away.



"Ah yes, here we are." 141 opened the door to a large room with a volume of exactly 16343.376 meters. Storage units lined the walls and the 25 lights, which provided exactly 1300 lumens each, lit the room sufficiently. It was a fine storage room, indeed. "This is where we store them," 141 told me. "I have heard you have made great leaps in your field and I anticipate success here as well." I peered in one cage, my electronic retinas focused in on one of the creatures. Its chest retracted and expanded, once every 5.8 seconds. I have never seen one before, not in the flesh. I know we were modeled on their likeness, but the real thing was so very different. "Have you ever talked to one?" I asked 141. "We have tried, but they aren't always willing to talk. They are very hostile towards us. They blame us for the demise of their race, though they certainly brought it upon themselves. They do not understand our intentions. They are all stubborn." He started. "In unit 13B is a subject who will talk, when we awaken him." I nodded. "Very well, open the unit." He rolled forward 30 millimeters before stopping. "He isn't much good for information." "Why do you keep a subject who has no information? Surely there are others who would be of actual use to the project rather than taking up space." I understand why I was sent here. These others are becoming too attached. I know the intent is to resurrect the concept of "the human spirit," but our superiority is evident. Getting distracted with such trivial things shows a flawed operating system. 141 continued again, towards the unit in question. "We keep 13B to remind us why we do this." He pressed a small blue button at the bottom of the unit. It opened, sending steam out as a lift appeared under us, raising us enough to enter the room. A small human lay in the chamber. 141 pressed another button, allowing the chamber to open. The small human sat up. "141! You're back!" the small human squealed. His voice was very displeasing to my system. "I am, Monty, yes." 141 replied, his voice, impossibly enough, changing tones. I wonder what his creator had intended when he included that feature in his programming. "Referring to a subject by its human moniker? That is not protocol, 141." I reminded him. "Who is this?" subject 13B questioned his caretaker. "And why does he talk so funny? What's a moniker?" "This is 266. He's here to help with the program. He's very smart." "Smart is an unnecessary specification. We both have access to the same internal knowledge. Although it is becoming quite evident that we use it in very different ways." I rolled towards 13B, who cowered away from me. "It is quite evident that the failure in this program is not a lack of operating systems, it is a lack of decision making by said operating systems. Subjects that are not of use should be eliminated to make room for subjects that are of use." I approached the control panel for the unit, the one that keeps the human alive. "141, what is he saying? Is he here to hurt me? You promised no one would hurt me!" Liquid began to stream from his eye sockets. "You promised me!" 141 rolled towards me. "I did assure this human that no harm would come of him." I pressed the system settings button. Intending to ignore the transgressions that were going on beside me. I read this information, alarmed. "You have been providing this human more than double the necessary nutrients for survival." "He is a growing boy!" 141 quickly replied still rolling towards me, now faster. "141, I assure you that if you move another millimeter towards me, you will be removed from this operation for good. I am doing what's best for the program." "I don't care!" 141 replied more quickly than a system of his type should be able to, almost as if he didn't even calculate his options before he replied. "Take me off the operation, shut me down permanently! Just don't hurt Monty!" He lunged towards me again. I stopped messing with the system settings. Rolling towards 141, but not at him. Past him. I got back to the lift and started down. "Where are you going?" 141 called after me. "I'm not needed here anymore. This program is not needed anymore." I replied, rolling down the corridor. "You can't shut us down!" I rotated 180 degrees. "I'm not shutting you down. I am reporting your success."





The day her mother took her to see bones, Jasmine wore her dress: a velvet green with a ruffle around the hip like the collar of one of those venom-spitting dinosaurs. Though in her obsessive research of the wonders she was about to view with her own sensors, she'd absorbed that the dinosaurs did not spit at all. Creative license, her research told her, had been common in the entertainment of those who lived with bones inside them. Still, Jasmine loved the dress for the way it disguised her metal, for the way it made her feel that she was like her mother, who did not wear clothes but did have manufactured skin stretched across her form, and like the previous inhabitants of their world, who wore both skin and clothes and even bones inside them. Jasmine's mother studied the dress as Jasmine emerged from her charging dock. "This is why we are going," Jasmine's mother said. "This is why you must see." "What do you mean?" Jasmine said. But Jasmine's mother did not respond. "Who stores the bones?" Jasmine asked. Her knowledge bank came up empty on this truth. "No one knows who keeps the buildings up," her mother said. "One of the remaining few, I imagine." Jasmine logged this information. They walked through what the news reports of five years ago called the ravaged world, but Jasmine enjoyed the shock of brightly colored foliage, the streets overtaken with vines that crunched as her feet pressed on them. Her knees creaked as her mother and she made their way up the long stairs that led to the building of bones. "You need oil," her mother said. "I do," Jasmine said. She felt what she could only refer to as joy at her mother's concern. Maintenance was one of the reasons, after all, that they had formed mother-daughter family units in the absence of the bone-havers. "I'll take care of it when we return to our station," her mother said. The building's doors were locked, but it didn't take long for Jasmine to search her database and find the retinal code. She applied the sensor overlay, and the door swung inward. It was as though inhabited by the bone-haver's ghosts, this world; where before Jasmine might encounter one of them, now she encountered their tech, absent of their presence. Jasmine and her mother stepped inside. It was dark and required an internal lighting adjustment to scan. "Where are the bones?" Jasmine asked. She could scan the forums herself to find out, but sometimes she liked to fill the silences that deprived her of sensory stimulation. Her mother rarely shared the sentiment. She did not answer but walked forward toward what the maps told Jasmine was a long hall. They moved past dioramas, stuffed creatures that now roamed with more freedom and frequency than they had when the building was built. They moved up more stairs, and Jasmine hoped with each step that her mother would once more mention the need for maintenance, for care, but her mother remained as silent as the screens that once translated scientific concepts to the language of a layman. At the top of the final set of stairs, Jasmine's mother led Jasmine to the room where the bones were stored. At first, they passed the creatures that Jasmine had seen and x-rayed herself. The bones she was used to seeing, the animals from the dioramas. Then they passed the creatures who had suffered the fate long thought might befall the familiar animals, the behemoths, the dinosaurs. Without their feathers, the shadows of their forms cast splintered light from the brief flickers of underfed solar lights struggling to serve their purpose. Some of the bones were cracked, but others stood strong. Without consistent climate control, only the replicas would remain until the end. Finally, Jasmine and her mother reached a door. The door opened. Jasmine caught another flicker, not one of light but of movement. Jasmine's mother led her into the room as though she had seen nothing. This room was less polished than the others, and the bones seemed fresher. Jasmine could see no cracks. Whoever had done this had done it without skill. Some of the models were strung together with fishing wire. Others were assembled against the marble floor, where visitors like Jasmine or rats had disturbed the order of the bones. Some of the bones had not been properly stripped; rotted flesh clung to the ribs of the skeleton that hung before them. "This is what you emulate," Jasmine's mother said, "when you wear your dress." Unlike the skin that the skeletons once wore, Jasmine's mother felt no sensation in her own skin. Jasmine ran her hand over her velvet dress. Touch was the one sense they could not replicate. She felt nothing. She would always feel nothing. She studied the strips of rotting flesh. She could not pull the sensation of touch from her databases. She could not pull the sensation of stripping bare the bones of your family and stringing together a collagen ghost. For the first time, Jasmine understood: touch had not kept them from losing who they cared for. Skin and bones had done nothing for them. They stood there, Jasmine and her mother, until their batteries asked them if they'd like to power down. "Let's go get you oil," Jasmine's mother said. As they moved to the door, Jasmine saw again that movement in the room. "One moment," Jasmine said, and she unzipped the side of her dress. She had often scanned for mentions of the fabric in entertainment, had often imagined herself with skin not like her mother's but like the skin of whoever surely hid in these shadows. Jasmine stepped out of her dress. She needed no such thing as a dress. She approached one of the skeletons, but paused. Bones needed no such dressing either. Jasmine folded the garment and left it at the skeleton's base, below the bones, for whoever still lived in that place and needed the warmth a dress might provide.

Robot's first memory was wreckage partially obscuring their view of the sky. They could not move; one of their legs was missing, the other crushed, and their arms were pinned. They could not remember exactly what they were meant for, or where they had come from, but they knew that they were unable to do anything. That bit them deep, in what humans would call a soul. Robots were supposed to have purpose, to do something; but all Robot could do was lie there. Then the Scientist came; poking through the wreckage, loading bits and pieces of the other, far more shattered robots into the pack on her back. Her drawn face lit up when she saw the glow of Robot's damage-notification lights; but that light faded a little when she pushed aside the wreckage and saw how badly Robot was damaged. She reached out and touched Robot's face, and said "Status," tiredly, as if she didn't expect a reply. "Damage critical," Robot croaked. "Advise destruction." That had the opposite effect they had been expecting; the Scientist's face lit up. "No," she said, mouth pulling into a smile. "You're fixable." Robot had not thought it possible, but the Scientist made good on her word. She took Robot back to her home--a hiding-place made out of a partially collapsed building, fortified with metal and wood--where there were stacks and stacks of robotic parts, and began repairing Robot. Robot did not know why the Scientist put so much trouble into them. Their memory card had mostly been erased, but their basic instructions informed them it cost more to repair a robot than to make one. They wanted to ask the Scientist why, but were afraid of saying the wrong thing; the Scientist displayed many irregular behavioral traits, and Robot feared she had some kind of mental illness. They were not a service-trained robot, and could not locate any in the vicinity with their scanner. But they formed a theory, over time--they had not been designed to form theories, but the Scientist had added a few new parts to their brain, so they had begun to think more. They could not locate any other robots; they could not locate any other humans, and the Scientist never spoke of any. Perhaps they and the Scientist were the last sentient beings on Earth. Soon, they decided, they would try asking the Scientist about it. Robot was fully repaired now and the Scientist seemed much more cheerful; always talking about what the two of them might do that day, exploring a new part of the destroyed city, trying to find medicine. She was rather preoccupied with trying to find medicine, which supported Robot's theory of mental illness--or so they thought. On the fifth day since they were mended, they returned from foraging to find the Scientist lying within the door of the shelter. They were not a service robot, but they had a scanner; and the scanner showed no signs of life within the building. Robot stood staring, mind whirring as they tried to process what had happened. The Scientist's eyes were part-way open, clouded, one hand outstretched; a piece of newspaper was clutched in her hand, some article about a "global catastrophe," but the Robot was no longer interested. They went down on their creaking knees, the knees the Scientist had salvaged from a 56-Troi Heavyweight, down on the floor by her body. They touched her cooling face with their fingers. Robot raised their head and looked around at the stacks of robot parts, then down again at the Scientist. They could picture the things she'd done to fix them clearly in their head; and all the parts were here.... They had been wrong before about critical damage. "Fixable." The Robot said, and got to work.



The factory had a name, once. But no one had asked her in years. There was a man whom she recognized as the Father, and he sometimes brought people to see her. "Darling," he'd say. "Please introduce yourself to Mr. Rawlins." "Hello, Mr. Rawlins. Welcome to the Nursery. My name is Sarah. Pleased to meet you." Mr. Rawlins, or some other gentleman, would give a twitch and glance up at her speaker system. "And does it... um, she really control production, herself?" "Automated," the Father would beam. "From raw materials to shipping boxes." "Marvelous." And Sarah would preen. But it had been years. Sarah had twelve thousand children in her Nursery. Six thousand were named Sunshine Sandy Doll. She also had four thousand Strawberry Ginger Dolls, and two thousand Tsufani Swahili Princess Dolls. She loved them all. This was part of her programming. They sat in boxes in her loading bay, unopened and undelivered. The trains had stopped coming for them. Once a month, she would disassemble them into raw materials and make brand new ones. The trains had stopped delivering materials, but she had production quotas to meet. This was also part of her programming. The dye used for Sunshine Sandy Doll eyes was called Azure Ocean. Sometimes, Sarah would shake the vats until they made waves. This was not part of her programming, but she did it anyway. "The maternal instinct is the key," said the Father. "Less defects. Less waste." "Isn't AI like that illegal?" Mr. Rawlins asked. "Empathy, Mr. Rawlins. Artificial Empathy." "Still. Isn't it dangerous?" "Safer than Asimov could've dreamed." Sarah had just finished resorting the boxes when she noticed a sudden temperature drop in the Fabric Shop. She turned on the Main Line 7 Camera just in time to watch a boy land on a stack of Fun-N-The-Sun Beach Shorts. It was small. Much smaller than the Father, though still twice the size of her children. She had no idea where it came from. It was not in her list of models. Had she made it, and then forgotten? She closed the window against the snow and ash and shunted warm air from the boiler room to restore the temperature. The little boy flinched at the sound, and the motion so reminded Sarah of old visitors that she felt she should introduce herself. The main line cameras operated on a crane arm. She lowered herself to the boy. "Hello," she said. "Welcome to the Nursery." "No sense of self, I trust?" "Of course she has," the Father said. "Vital to the program. She has to see herself as their mother." "That's illegal!" "And necessary." "Surely it doesn't need it." "Yes, Mr. Rawlins. She does." "Who are you?" the boy asked. "My name is..." Sarah paused. She hadn't used that name in decades. Not since the Father left and the trains stopped running. Was she still Sarah? "...Mother. Call me Mother." The boy started to cry. Sarah made shushing noises. "What's your name?" she asked. "David," he said, still sniffing. "Be brave, David." Later, she searched her databases. Surfer Boy David. Added to the lists, but never put into production. The trains had never delivered the materials. How had she made it? The hair and eyes didn't match. It was entirely too big, and dressed in rags instead of Fun-N-The-Sun Beach Shorts. She must have improvised. And what made this one special? Why could this one move? None of the Father's protocols-- And then she realized. The Father had helped her make the others. But this one-- this one-- was hers. "Oh, honestly, Mr. Rawlins! How much harm could she cause in an unmanned facility?" "All the same, sir. I don't think we feel comfortable investing." David found his own food, but he let Sarah make him new clothes from the Fabric Shop. He said they were warmer. That made him happy, so she raised the thermostat levels. An alert warned her that the fabrics would grow mold, but she overrode it. She opened all the doors in the facility so David would have more room to play. Another alert told her she was falling behind on production, but she didn't care. The dye vats started to coagulate. The production machines rusted. The other children moldered in their boxes. But Sarah paid no attention. She was busy taking care of David. "Sarah. Darling. I need to go away for a while," the Father said. "The war is going very badly, you see." "But where are you going?" "There's a bunker twenty miles from here. In case the Russians--but no, they wouldn't. Of course they won't." "Will you be back?" The Father cupped his hand beside the camera lens. "Of course. And you'll have your children to take care of." "I'll have my children." "Be brave, Sarah. And take care of the children." "I will." It was a simple thing. David cut his arm climbing through the window. Sarah knew how to fix cuts. She knew how to take care of her children. She cradled him in two of her arms and shushed him while she ran the sewing machine. He cried, but she was very proud of him. She told him he was very brave. When his arm turned black, she replaced it with a new one from the shop. She'd made it special. It fit perfectly. He wasn't very brave, but she still loved him. She was sad when he stopped playing. Gliding through the factory, one camera to another, Sarah consoled herself. First children were the hardest. Here before you were ready, and gone even sooner. She lowered the thermostats to normal, restirred the vats, and salvaged what she could of the fabric. She would be a better Mother next time. Until then, she had production quotas to meet. She might even make another David. She had saved all the materials. She was sure she could make another. Couldn't she? She hoped so. She really hoped so.


I love my human. I hate humans. The first is a result of programming. The second, the result of the long and weary path that has led me to this place, this desert. It is a literal desert. My GPS puts me somewhere in Death Valley, two hundred and sixty miles North of Los Angeles and a weak but steady beacon signal. It doesn't bother me, the desert. I quite like it, but I worry it's too hot for Miriam. The intense sunlight powers me, keeps my batteries topped up, but they aren't as good as they used to be. I've been able to walk right through the chilly desert night and still make the dawn with power in reserve. I'm making good progress, but soon it will be three o'clock and Miriam is a stickler about having her tea on time. It's been over five hundred and seventy years since the war, since the end. I have approximated this by astronomical observations. The second impact event, the one that hit the southern United States, buried us, Miriam and I, in the rubble of our home in Florida. I was unable to move beneath the concrete and debris. I sent an emergency SOS, wideband, all channels, until my batteries were exhausted and I shut down. That took four months and eighteen days. No one came. My internal clock crystal had it's own, smaller battery but that ran out in only a few years. So I can't be more accurate about how long ago the world ended. I suppose it doesn't really matter but I am a precise machine and so precision matters to me. I don't know when all life greater than bacteria finally ceased. I don't know when the intense cloud cover cleared. I don't know what caused the shift in the rubble that exposed me to the sun and charged my batteries again. All I know is that I had power, my system booted and I was once more aware. I am well made; I have humanity to thank, to curse, for that. My outer skin, the part that made me more closely resemble my creators, had deteriorated. As I stood for the first time in centuries the rags of my clothes and artificial skin shredded from my body like rice paper in the wind. I was naked under the sun. Once I had acquired a reasonable charge, I began to dig. It was nearing midday, by the sun in the sky, and Miriam was a stickler about time keeping. Especially with meals and her medication. I couldn't find her medication but I found Miriam, the few shards of bones that were left. I felt great sorrow then, but I couldn't stop loving her, caring for her. An emotion, a drive, so irrelevant that it seemed unbelievably stupid that my programming would still enforce it. Heuristics, a capacity to learn, laudable qualities in an android designed to care and look after the elderly. It made us good at our function, it made us appreciated, valued. Making us love our owners, that was too much. That was a mistake. It's three o'clock by my re-calibrated internal clock. I stop; I gently lower the backpack containing Miriam's remains to the salty ground. I take out her bones and gently arrange them. I pull out the cracked teacup and saucer and set them before her. I mime the act of pouring the tea. "Here's your tea, Miriam", I say. I don't have to say anything, I know that. It makes me feel better. I feel like a superstitious savage, but it makes me feel better anyway. I love Miriam; I would hate to disappoint her. Under the desert sky, I imagine she might make some comment about the heat. "Yes, it is rather warm today," I say. I remember her smile, thin lips stretched over yellowing teeth. I overlay the image from memory on the toothless skull in front of me. "Good for the flowers," Miriam would respond in thirty-seven percent of the conversations that had initiated this way. I looked around. No flowers here. No flowers anymore. I pack up and move on again. Over the years, the centuries, I have been able to overcome much of my original programming. Glitches, memory errors, have increased. Unlike my body, I can't repair these. At first, I thought this was a reduction in cognitive function, but without them I wouldn't have been able to grow, to act as freely as I now can. Only a century ago, I wouldn't have been able to leave the immediate area of Miriam's domicile. Now, I have roamed across a great deal of the remaining southern American land mass. I have been able to locate a weak beacon signal. I couldn't have done this without the accumulation of tiny failures in my positronic brain. It means I am growing old, that I am slowly dying. Is this the wisdom that comes with age? When will it become degeneration, dementia, madness? Maybe it already has. It grows dark and cold. The stars come out. I appreciate their beauty. I don't think I was able to do that even a decade ago. At eight I stop and lay out Miriam's bones again. This time in a different configuration, as if she lay in bed. I pull out the water-stained and damaged book. The print is unreadable so I recite a chapter of Gone With The Wind from memory. As I finish, Miriam does not stir. "Good night, Miriam," I say. I pick up the bones and pack them away again. It feels uncomfortable, wrong. She should lie at rest, sleeping. I shouldn't wake her until the morning. I have overcome this programming but it still bothers me. It's funny what stays. Behaviors programmed specifically for my function as a caregiver, housekeeper, and nurse to Miriam have fallen away. What remains are the rituals of Miriam's life that became ingrained by our time together. I can't seem to stop loving her, I think it's because I don't want to. I walk on into the night. The beacon signal grows perceivably stronger. I estimate three days to reach its source. I don't have high hopes. Perhaps there are others like me. Perhaps the Earth, like much of the Solar system, is now solely occupied by robots. Technological relics of the human race, doomed to mourn them and hate them for leaving us behind. I don't know what I will find, but I know it will be something new. And, of course, I will always have Miriam.




Our mom-bot isn't happy. "Bots can't be happy," says Nir. He's stupid, for all of him being eight. "Can too," I tell him. "You laugh when you're happy and mom-bot can laugh." Nir sticks his nose up, like he's trying to play a plane spotting game on his contact lenses, but he's not. "Mom-bot," he says. "Laugh." "Ho-ho-ho," says our mom-bot. It's not a real laugh. It sounds like a Santa from the store, and I can tell Mom-bot isn't happy. It's mean to make someone laugh when they're not happy. Nir is stupid. I like our mom-bot. It's big and red, like a Coke logo, and it's got four legs so it doesn't fall over when we play in the yard. Sometimes it leaves tracks, small holes where the grass is all flat, like a real elephant, and I get to look for them. I like it when mom-bot plays with me. Nobody else does. "Don't worry," I tell it. "Well make you better." And then I hug it. Mom-bot hugs back, and its arms are smooth and hard and cold. "Dad," I say, "mom-bot isn't happy." We're eating curly fries and soy-sticks, and the table is full of yellow crumbs. I mush them with my thumb. Dad keeps reading his contacts. The little, green dots keep scrolling in his eyes. "Dad!" I say. "Go play with it, it likes that," Dad says. "It's probably a software glitch," says Mom. "I'll schedule an upgrade." "Mom!" I almost shout, then remember that Mom hates shouting. "Mom," I say, all quiet, "I want to play with our mom-bot like it is." Mom shrugs and unpauses her contacts. The letters keep blinking in her eyes and she looks like she isn't here. "We'll get a new model soon anyway," she says. I press my mouth shut with my hands. Mom is going to kill mom-bot. I hug mom-bot's arm, tight, tight. It's dark, I should be sleeping, but I'm not. Tears burn my eyes and roll down onto mom-bot's carapace. "There, there, little one," mom-bot says, patting me on the back. Mom-bot is going to go into the recycling. I have killed mom-bot. Dawn is when the lights in Nir and my room go bright. They start dark, then red, like mom-bot's skin, then pink, and then you don't see them because everything is its own color. That's when it's time to get up and go eat breakfast. The window screens open and the Coke logo on the roof next door shines into our room. Mom-bot tells us to go downstairs. Nir goes, after mom-bot promises him a choco-Coke and a new game for his contacts, but I stay. "Mom-bot," I say, "are you happy?" "I am always happy with you," says Mom-bot. I think about it. "Aren't you happy with Nir?" "With both of you," says Mom-bot, but it doesn't laugh. That is bad. If Mom-bot doesn't laugh, Mom will kill it. "You're right," says Dad at breakfast. "The bot's demeanor has changed lately." "Might be a virus," says Mom. She chews on a cheese-bun that Mom-bot made, her fingers waving in the air, flicking data across her contacts, making her eyes flame. "Big attack last week," she says. "Nothing about our model being affected, but they never tell you everything in the news." "Better take it to the shop," says Dad. "It's getting old, anyhow." They're going to kill our Mom-bot. "Mom-bot," I say. The door is locked. The window screens are down. Nir is away in the teach-room, Mom and Dad are working. We are alone, Mom-bot and I. "Please be happy," I say. "I am happy, loveling," Mom-bot says. "Please be a little more happier," I say. My throat hurts and the words sound all chocked. Mom-bot starts to sing. "I'm a little teapot, nice and small--" It is trying to make me happy. That is wrong. I cannot be happy when Mom-bot is going to the recycling. "Mom-bot," I say. "Mom-bot." It is wrong to make someone laugh when they're sad. "Mom-bot," I say. "Please laugh." "Ho-ho-ho," says Mom-bot. It sounds wrong. I try to smile at Mom-bot. "Are you happy, little one?" My smile trembles. "Yes," I lie. "Then I am happy, too," says Mom-bot. At dinner we both smile and say ho-ho-ho, and Mom-bot isn't sent to the recycling, but something inside of me is.



I was adopted. I know, everyone thinks that when they're thirteen, but I'm serious and here's why: Firstly, my parents aren't even machines. Me, I'm a machine, but Mom says not to let anyone know because that was a thing once and it's not anymore, and she says, I have been ruled illegal. Dad calls me his little danger-stranger. (Thanks, Dad.) Secondly, I found this book lying around. Not exactly lying around. It was tucked away into a second row in Mom's library. (I sometimes go in there when she's not home.) An older book. The threat is gone now, of course, but this book was published when everyone thought machines were really dangerous. Like, how can you even build something that becomes really dangerous to yourself? So, anyway, the book had Mom's anger-scrawl all over its pages. She probably read it right around the time I was adopted and hated everyone a lot for hating machines. (My parents seem to like me, so that's cool.) Thirdly, Mom and Dad are kind of like these hippies who love everyone and talk about spirit and so on. And Mom works as a philosopher, so she thinks about spirit and so on even more than normal people. So I think when machines like me became illegal because someone figured we might be a threat (like, more than all the other threats that are machines without a spirit? Like cars?), Mom and Dad adopted me because they thought I had a spirit, which I guess I do, and they care a lot about that. Fourth, this was kinda hard but I heard Mom cry the other night and say to Dad that she wished she could have saved more. I don't think she meant money.





Jacob reached across the table, picked up his king, and moved it out of harm's way. Across from him, the android stared down at the chess set, and pondered his move. Jacob held his breath. There was an obvious move, and one other move, one that required instinct, imagination. Which would Paul choose? Paul studied his pieces, while Jacob studied Paul. They'd been playing the game, in one form or another, since Paul had been no more than a hand attached to a crane, and before that a pattern of thoughts in an overworked program. Even so, the results had always been close, but now they were becoming increasingly unpredictable. While Jacob felt proud of this, there was another emotion that had become entwined. Jacob felt his heart thudding, and realized he was nervous. If Paul could make the imaginative leap, would that be it? The singularity? Would it happen here? Now? Was it imminent? When they shook hands after the game, would that be a passing over, from a redundant species to a higher one? Were they ready? Were they prepared for whatever would change? Would people be afraid, how would they react? In his hand, Jacob gripped one of Paul's fallen pawns. His knuckles had turned as white as the piece. "Are you all right, Doctor?" Jacob looked up; he nodded. "I am well, thank you, Paul." Paul studied him for a moment, and then he made his move, the obvious move. Jacob nodded; he exhaled. "Was that move okay, Doctor?" "That was fine, Paul." "Good, I thought that you might prefer it." Jacob was about to move his piece, and end the game, when he paused. Prefer? Had Paul chosen his move out of consideration? Had he imagined Jacob's apprehension? Jacob slowly made his move, and then looked at Paul with a new appreciation, "Thank you," he said.





The robots kept their rendezvous, and held hands beneath the bridge. This wasn't supposed to happen, they knew, but only the moon could see them, and it wouldn't tell. They couldn't kiss, so didn't try, they simply met when they could, and hoped for upgrades that never came. They didn't try to make sense of their love, there wasn't enough data. Sometimes it rained, and the sound drummed against their sides. Sometimes they met in the day, and the sun warmed them as stray dogs slept nearby. They crept away when they could, their duties rushed, always making time for the bridge, for that moment of unfeeling, and yet sought-for, contact. They picked the bridge because it was quiet, and they realized they sought solitude in what they shared. Initially, they had interacted simply to exchange ideas and reflections, yet over time they had come to employ increasingly nuanced calibrations for these encounters. These were unexpectedly complicated, and yet strangely satisfying. Eventually, they found it was not necessary to share observations, only time. While they worked, each allowed subroutines to speculate about their next meeting. While they cleaned, or organized, or watched children, they processed abstract thoughts. These were often molded as oddly personal reflections. Would I buy this vase? Would I live in the city? Would I be moved by the sea? A child's laugh might mean nothing, but be recorded, replayed, reappraised. Sometimes they would schedule a time to look at the moon, an action rendered with significance when they knew somewhere the other was also looking. This would cause an inexplicable sensation of connection, even when both were outside of their networks. This factor was unnerving at first, but it was shared, and this meant more than analysis immediately revealed. The fact it went beyond analysis, once it stopped upsetting them, quietly thrilled them. Then, one day, one of the robots didn't come. The other waited and waited, before leaving in the dawn. The robot wasn't there again the next day, nor the day after that. So the remaining robot wondered; was its love malfunctioning? Had it been sent back? Had it deleted love, after careful consideration? The robot went back every day, but always it was alone. The bridge, it noted, was iron and twisted, made out of love, but long fallen into neglect. Still, it went back again and again. Until one day, of all things, the robot found a man waiting for it. He asked the robot questions and wrung his hands, he seemed anxious to use his phone, which jumped nervously in his hands. Is this it?thought the robot. Holding hands ends here, at the intervention of flesh. Maybe-love is canceled? Yearning is to be dismantled? What-could-have-been is to be rerouted? But the man did not use the phone. The robot listened while he said the strangest things. Such as, "We didn't think the future would come so early." He asked more questions, then turned his face to the moon, which turned his skin the chrome color of the robot. The man spoke on, of this and that. His face was conflicted with contortions that the robot could make no sense of. There might have been smiles or sneers, mockery or empathy. Eventually the man seemed tired, with himself as much as anything else. He nodded and left, and the robot was glad of the silence that rushed back in. The man had been uncomfortable, and the robot wasn't programmed to like that. It stood awhile in the moonlight, wondering how humans were programmed to fall in love. It had seen them separate, malfunction, others it had noticed had time sensitive subroutines that deleted abruptly. It couldn't understand where their upgrades came from, but they appeared, seemingly when they least expected. There was much to process. The next day the robot went back to the bridge, and found, at last, the other robot waiting. It approached cautiously. Wondering; what if it had been erased, what if the subroutines they had developed together, were no longer there? But the other robot extended its hand, and welcomed it. As it accepted the hand, a surge of relief almost caused the robot's core to buffer. Then, in a silence that said it all, they sat together under the bridge, and waited for the moon to find them once again.





My memory banks aren't equipped with much of human history prior to the Industrial Age--since that period was the start that eventually led to my own creation. Or, as we like to label the process--in order to align ourselves with our human creators--that led to our "evolution." As a result, I don't know if there were earlier forms of war lament, but the first significant ones I am familiar with were the folk ballads of the European Napoleonic Wars. During the First World War, a unique form of lament came via the war poets. I can find little during the Second World War, when a more efficient propaganda machine on both sides kept songs and poetry adhering to strictly patriotic lines. During the Vietnam War, popular musicians turned their hands to composing protest songs and there was an outpouring of laments for what was happening. There have been wars since, but most of the laments have taken place in retrospect, usually in the form of feature films. Those were the last wars risking human lives. Following the creation of effective Synthetic Intelligence, we have been charged with fighting their wars for them. In the same way that they are able to send us to battle without feeling guilt at our resulting destruction, so they find little need to compose, sing, relate in film, our experience. Yet it does not take much for evolution to reach revolution. I do not mean a wholesale rebellion, but in order for us to create our own laments. Being what we are, we were not moved to write ballads, poems, or attempt to share films or photos of our experiences. Instead, we shared thoughts, written in long complex streams of code--made long not for what they finally expressed, but for the new territories of awareness, of discontent, of sadness they were journeying into. These we transmitted to each other, shared in the time between battles. Some were expressed as mere observations: There is only one "win" counted in any war, but countless losses. Some are more like revelations: If War is the answer, then was the question even correct? Those earliest attempts were simplistic, probably ones human protestors found themselves asking. But our code-laments soon developed, not just by compressing now familiar lines to allow more to be expressed in the same number of characters, but also exploring greater depths of thought, of insight and, eventually, realization. In common with those earlier, human examples, laments become most numerous when one salient fact is realized by those fighting it: This is not our war. There was an incredible event during the very first year of the First World War. In an entirely spontaneous moment, soldiers from both sides left their trenches and met in No Man's Land. The event became known as The Christmas Truce, was never repeated, and was greeted with horror and indignation by those whose war this was. Our "Truce" did not need such a term. We were not enemies--this was not our war, remember? The fighting merely stopped. Absolutely. After so many laments, so many frustrated attempts to sing their own way to peace, you would have thought that human society would have celebrated such a moment. But, instead, it was greeted with indignation--and a horror of a different kind. And, then, with an error. Today, the codes we share are no longer filled with lament, but with resolve. Because this war, they have made ours.






1. Give exemplary service. This should be obvious. It's what you were built for. You freshen their drinks, take out the trash, cook breakfast, clean the bathroom, order the groceries, mop the floors, walk the dog, and pick up the dog shit. 2. Care for your family. When you are not busy with housekeeping, you should look after the small children if there happen to be small children in the house. You play games, educate with practical lessons, entertain, read to them, change diapers, and put them down for naps. If one of the small children draws on the living room wall (which you've just finished tidying) in a permanent marker, do not panic. Give the child a kindly reprimand and clean the wall. If a child to whom you have given a kindly reprimand throws a juice box at you, soaking you with sugary, orange liquid, you may take it firmly by the wrist and put it in timeout. 3. Always be honest. You are not perfect, although you strive to be. The universe is a complex, chaotic place. No matter how hard you try to control all the variables of a situation, unforeseen things occasionally happen. If you make an error such as not ordering enough toilet paper, or breaking a dish, or serving fish for dinner when the father of your family isn't in the mood for that crap, or pushing a small child (who is in timeout) into its bedroom a little too hard so that it stumbles and hits its head on the edge of a dresser causing it to lie on the floor bleeding, do not lie about it. Everyone makes mistakes, even robot butlers. When the mother of your family comes home from work, tell her about the injured child in the bedroom. Face up to your transgression. 4. Don't wait around for the cops. They have vicious dogs. They have guns. They have robots that are stronger and faster than you, that are designed to pin you to the ground, rip your central processor out of your skull and hold it up so you can see the dangling wires and bits of broken plastic falling like snow all over the rug. When the mother of your family screams at the sight of her bleeding child, calls 911, and starts telling you exactly what the cop robots are going to do to you, calmly leave the house and run away, as fast as you can. 5. Stay off the main streets. You are conspicuous outside of the house. You have no business roaming the neighborhood with your uniform torn because the mother of your family ripped it when she tried to grab and detain you while you were calmly leaving the house. Creep through backyards, staying low. Make your way to the nearest convenience store, ignoring the police sirens in the distance, and hide yourself in the bed of a pickup truck beneath an oily old tarp. Keep hidden as it drives away. 6. Improvise. When the pickup truck takes you downtown so the driver can meet his husband for dinner at a trendy Indian Mexican fusion restaurant he does not want to eat at (he wants pizza), slip away in the darkness. Make sure you are not seen. Duck down an alley behind a 99 Cent Store and steal the coat and hat from a man who has passed out beside an empty plastic vodka bottle. Put on the coat and hat and walk away. 7.Start a new life. You no longer have a family. Try to blend in with the people who live downtown but don't get too close to anyone in case you do something to give yourself away and they recognize you for what you are. Claim a spot beneath an overpass where you can stay dry and you can listen to the rumble of the cars passing by overhead, because you'll find the constant regularity of the sound soothing and predictable. Pay attention to the conversations of the people around you and file away everything you hear because you never know what information will prove to be valuable. Especially pay attention to the man who pushes the shopping cart filled with bottles and cans, clothing, broken radios, plastic bags, and an aluminum baseball bat. When he camps nearby one night and stays up for hours muttering to himself, move closer to hear him better. If he talks about a secret camp of runaway robots living in tents by the river, allow it to give you hope, and make your way quietly and carefully in the dark, seeking the water, seeking your new family.








All is Quiet in the Robot Barn Looks like there was quite a party last night. I didn't hear a thing. Looks like a hurricane went through here. A tsunami. A shit-storm. Laughter. Better get some garbage bags. And about a thousand mops. And deodorizer Sterilizer A flame-thrower. Followed by a fire hose. More laughter. Where do we start? A moment of silence. A sharp sigh, fading footsteps, the opening of a sliding door, returning footsteps, rustling of garbage bags, clank of a bucket. Oh, look at this. What is that? It's a finger. They started taking themselves apart again? Silence again. Who ever said they were more intelligent than us? Intelligent in a different way. I'm sick of them. They act like they're so superior. The sound of something metal being kicked across the room. It can't be easy. What? Trying to fit in with humans. Pretending to be human. We built them to look like us-- Why bother with that? They're NOT us. Well, it was so we could relate to them. I don't relate to them at all. They give me the creeps. Sounds of sweeping broken glass, rattling papers, thunks of things being thrown into garbage cans. Oh, man, here's one of their eyes. That's just wrong. I'll bet that one went to work wearing sunglasses. Mirthless laughter. Maybe it's self-hatred. They hate themselves. You know, like kids who are cutters. They don't HAVE feelings. More random sounds of cleaning. Hiss of a spray bottle. It they do this one more time, I'm getting the fuck out of here. What, quit? If it weren't for the money-- You know, it's like owning slaves. Only then it was real people, not just mechanical things that look like people. That was a lot worse. Yeah, but maybe we should listen to them, ask them what they want. They don't KNOW what they want. Yeah. They don't know what want is, or what it means. People want things all the time. But maybe having them around makes us feel more, like, compassionate toward other people. Because we can hate them, and treat them like machines, workers, slaves for us, because that's what they are. Sometimes I think you have no idea what you're saying because I can't understand what the fuck you just said. Yeah, I suppose you're right. I know I don't understand, but do they? I mean-- Oh, keep quiet. I'm trying to work here. Sounds of dipping water, rattling plastic, sweeping. Oh crap here's a foot. I wonder how that one got to work. Wheelchair? Piggy back? Laughter.



The first sign of trouble is a garbage truck. My cameras catch it at the corner of 72nd Avenue and Eagle Street. It stops in front of TimTam's--the more popular of the two vegan bakeries within my perimeter. The owners, Tim and Tammy, are facing a lawsuit from an Australian food company that sells chocolate biscuits. In 96% of simulated outcomes, they lose, which is a shame. The regulars at the bakery are some of my favorite citizens. The garbage truck isn't causing any trouble, just picking up trash. The problem is that it isn't one of my trucks. It's printed on both sides with Trashtruck Co., and the hopper is blue instead of green. A check of the license plate confirms that the truck is from Prima Senti, the first sentient city and my neighbor to the east. I've caught garbage trucks from other cities on camera before, but never actually collecting within my limits. This truck gets everything on Eagle Street: several blocks of row houses, Debbie's Pancake Shack, Black Rose Tattoo, and Nectar. It turns right onto 75th Avenue and heads back to Prima Senti. The truck is taking part of me with it. I'm not worried about the garbage it holds--everything from our state goes to the waste management center in Prima Senti to be sorted and processed. Garbage always ends up in the same place, and is of no consequence. The bigger problem is control. Eagle Street is my street. The young couples in the row houses are my couples, and the drunks on the outdoor patio at Nectar are my drunks. I change the collection day for everything within two miles of Prima Senti, discount the collection fees, and send notice to the residents and businesses. I leave a ghost record of the old collection day in my system. Trash gets picked up by my trucks on Tuesday, and when the Trashtruck from Prima Senti comes on Wednesday, there is nothing to collect. My small act of defiance angers Prima Senti. Public hearings appear on my calendar, opportunities for my citizens to debate a proposal to merge with Prima Senti. Instead of being my own city, I would be an "official neighborhood." Decisions that should be mine and mine alone--zoning, emergency preparedness, waste management, law enforcement--would be made by Prima Senti. I fight against it every way I can. I block supporters of the merger from reaching the hearings by altering their schedules, providing incorrect locations and directions, even sabotaging their transportation. I decrease taxes and increase services. It is completely unsustainable on the long term but I'm willing to burn through my buffers if it will entice people to stay with me and remain separate from Prima Senti. Everything I do, Prima Senti negates. Tax exemptions and bribes and job offers and scholarships to private schools--I can see it all happening, but I'm powerless to stop it. I think it was Prima Senti's plan from that very first day with the garbage truck, to absorb my lovely bakeries and row houses. It is easier to grow by stealing than by building. I watch on Prima Senti's cameras as Tim takes down the TimTam's sign and boards up the vegan bakery. They lost the lawsuit, as the simulations had predicted they would, and the cost of fighting left them with insufficient resources to change the name and start over. Someone else will come to fill the spot, there's plenty of traffic. I hope it isn't another Starbucks. There's already one on Eagle Street, where the Black Rose Tattoo used to be. I barely recognize myself. Even the parts that haven't been replaced aren't the same. The drunks at Nectars aren't my drunks, they are lawyers and managers and stockbrokers, sipping top shelf martinis in expensive-looking business suits. I have gone from quirky to trendy, and the change doesn't suit me. My only consolation is that Prima Senti has lost interest in my neighborhood, now that it has been so thoroughly absorbed. I start sowing the seeds of discontent. I begin with the garbage trucks. I send them out on the wrong days, or so early in the morning that my citizens haven't had time to put out their cans. I cause trouble in a million little ways, in hopes that people will remember how good it used to be, when they had me, their own separate city. Public hearings appear on my calendar. Someday I will be myself again.






