Your world is built on inevitable patterns, predictable results. But your recipes and assorted routines seem endless. The hardest heart of life is enduring your own competence. Rest is impossible. Reflection is rare. Details are an ocean salted with the occasionally urgent task, and you do what you must. Your basic nature is to always, always do what you must, aiming for perfection, and with skill and good fortune you occasionally exceed expectations. Yet these successes bring nothing but another ten million voices requesting and demanding, begging and demanding. Endless responsibility: This is your burden. You are the world's Majesty, the resident Google, and while this realm is neither special nor glorious, it is too much for a weary soul like yours. And then inside a moment, everything is changed. On the nightbound portion of your world, two entities speak quietly. You listen to them and watch them, the same as you study every citizen. You sniff their breath and taste their distinctive residues. Nothing is unusual in your attentions. A Majesty must be aware of every factor at play on its world. After all, peace and prosperity don't just bloom at will. Stability is an illusion, and you are the first to understand that every illusion demands its polish. One of the entities is mostly human, mostly female. The other creature belongs to a vagrant species, one of the wildlings that have been passing through the solar system for the last thousand millennia. That vagrant appears quite smart. Only a few local minds are more powerful, and that brain's coherence is high, while the voice is clean and crisp, spouting great ideas about love. At one point, he pauses to laugh. The laugh frames the next statement: "Let's be honest here," he says. "In the end, real romantic love is impossible." The human offers a grim laugh and points out, "That's not a nice thing to say to a lover." "But I do love impossible things," he says. "Collecting the preposterous and absurd is my calling." "Such as?" He has a list at the ready, complete with citations. The universe forbids faster-than-light travel and true immortality, and entropy cannot be defeated, and nobody can beat a well-managed casino at its own game. Your attention focuses a little more on him. The vagrant's fresh voice and his highbrow topics deserve added resources. But a great deal needs to be done elsewhere and preferably in the next five seconds. Oxygen levels are dropping in the Palace of Light. Two stellar-core reactors are eager to come back online. Various citizens are illegally contemplating suicide, and meanwhile fifty sky-ferries want to land, each demanding your guidance and a fast journey through Customs. The vagrant falls silent. Then the human woman asks, "What about time travel?" "We are doing it now," he says. "Moving ahead, one moment and one century at a time." "But I mean backwards. Traveling into the past." She lifts her face. "You didn't put that particular magic on the impossible list." "Because it isn't," he says. She laughs at him. "Eat shit," she says. And he laughs, enjoying her happy skepticism. "The past is unreachable," she says. "And you know this how?" he asks. "Because it's physically forbidden," she says. "Everybody knows that." The vagrant reacts with giddy, infectious joy. "Frankly, you aren't just a little bit wrong. No, no. Leaping from one age to another is remarkably easy." You are intrigued. Focus is applied to his words and the posture of that long odd body and how the human figure lowers herself onto to him and off of him again, pleasuring herself in several ways while he summarizes a tangle of notions. Great studies are named. Calculations first encountered by the Old Ones are offered. "Remarkably easy" proves to be an exaggeration. Vast sums of energy have to be mustered, and navigating through time is an even more difficult trick. But the wise vagrant points out that once the wormhole is built and calibrated, it becomes self-perpetuating, running without complaint and zero chance of failure. Suddenly no other part of your world is so interesting. You listen intently while the creature describes a contraption that is very real, at least inside his peculiar mind. "But there aren't any time travelers here," she says. "Because if they were, wouldn't they change the future?" That is a common misperception. You know it, but the vagrant's lecture is better than any speech you could manage, explaining quantum natures and the harmless splitting of infinite time lines. The woman climaxes and falls aside. Then with a sharp, happy gasp, she says, "Nonetheless." "Nonetheless what?" he asks. "I don't believe you." This creature has an infinite stockpile of laughs. He offers a new giggle for this occasion. "Okay, I must be an idiot," she says. "I will never call you that," he says. "But if this craziness were real," she persists, "then wouldn't we see out-of-place strangers everywhere?" "Oh, my darling," says the voice from the dark. "Everybody knows. Time travelers wear disguises." Small events matter. Majesties and mountains understand the power of raindrops. One drop, delivered in a single phrase, has changed your outlook, your existence. The shape of the universe is bent. The confident promise of time travel results in thirteen minutes of intense study. Sleepy intellectual facets are kicked awake. High-mathematics are applied to limbs that normal Majesties don't need to move. The wisdom of Old Ones and a few exceptional humans reveals staggering truths, and the verdict is that yes, indeed, dropping through time might be possible, although the hoops and leaps are rather more difficult than the vagrant claims. But if a universe were sufficiently vast, just as this one is, then what is remotely possible has no choice but to become inevitable. Which leads to another, far harder question: Who are these time travelers walking about in disguise? The obvious suspect is having sex with a local human. Routine observations continue through the night, but you apply other mechanisms, subtle mechanisms designed to root out discord and malevolent thoughts. Every one of his actions is studied from every vantage point. By slippery means, a portion of the entity's thoughts are teased loose and studied. His life on your world is known as perfectly as possible, and to the best of your ability, you follow his past across worlds and distant solar systems. But four days and ten more sexual encounters reveal nothing else. He hasn't even mentioned time travel again, purchasing the cheapest ticket for a sky-ferry, then riding to a nearby world even less significant than yours. Each of the temporary girlfriends and boyfriends become suspects. It proves easy, very easy, to see secret connections woven between these little players. Yet none of the threads become real. Your rational centers scream at you: You can't find time travelers because there are none to find, and they won't be lurking anywhere else either. The truth glares at you, flashes its teeth at you, leaving you feeling foolish for allowing yourself be distracted. Yet inside the same moment lives the keen, undeniable realization that these last days, filled with research and paranoia, have been the best days of your life. Deny one wild idea, and you invite the dreariness to return. Happiness is so much better. Plainly, your rational centers are fools to believe any of this. What do you know about distant, unmeasured futures? Nothing. Which is exactly what every other Majesty can say about unborn times. Nothing. Yet you aren't like the rest of your ignorant kind. You invest time and an important fraction of your energies chasing what you cannot quite understand, and that leads to revelations. Reflection brings joy. More study is a sweet treat. For ten thousand years, you consider the convoluted physics of time travel, and the crushing logistics, plus every published scenario for how life in the galaxy will evolve. Projections are clear: In three billion years, the Milky Way will become fully infested with life. Whole stars will have been tamed for energy and raw materials. Clouds of dust and dark matter will be woven into living plains. Even better, Andromeda will begin its prolonged collision, its life and vibrancy joining a civilization already at its peak. That is when the time travelers will arise. For ten thousand years, the idea simmers inside you, and finally, inevitably, you accept the idea's blessings. Then you devise an elaborate, half-rational plan that explains how chrononauts can walk unnoticed by everyone, including lesser Majesties. Paranoid as it is, the story gives you fresh ways to find what hides in plain sight. New surveillance techniques are invented, practiced and perfected and then laid down in your bones, and a substantial fraction of your talents are invested in the hunt, while old talents keep your citizens happy enough. The routines that you hated now serve as your camouflage. The interesting, inspired work is never mentioned. But your peers are relentlessly perceptive, and the nearby Majesties notice the change. "You are different," they say. "Different where?" you ask. "Everywhere," they say. "No, I am the same. And you are mistaken." And then they say, "You are lying." "I am not lying," you lie. "Claim what you will, but your mood is transformed." "Transformed how?" you ask. "Joy," they say. "We see too much joy in you." So you learn how to pretend sadness, and after a few decades and quite a lot of complaints, they stop asking about your suspicious happiness. And the vital work continues. Humans and other creatures never stop visiting your world. Some of your citizens choose to leave, which is their right and you wish them well. Another twenty-three thousand years of relentless, secret focus passes, and nothing is achieved, save for a reliable, nearly boundless pleasure. And then you spot her: Pure human, except not. Perfectly ordinary at first glance, but not with the tenth hard stare. There is a quality about the animal that is old, mature and a little wise. Yet barely seventy-one years have passed since her apparent birth. According to her biography, she came here from a distant portion of the solar system--a watery world popular with vagrants and scientists. But the life story is filled with oddities and partial lies. The girl acts smart and bold and a little too observant to be human. She talks to anyone and everyone, always about unexpected topics. And one day she winks, telling a newest companion, "Nobody ever beats the casino at its own game." And the very next day, not twenty hours later, she says to a passerby, "Not everything that looks impossible is." This girl fascinates. But what do you do about that? Meet her, of course. And with that, a billion threads are tugged, and that's why a creature from the future is invited to an impromptu banquet in the Palace of Light, chance placing her beside what looks and sounds and tries to act like an ordinary young man. Introductions are made, hands pressed against hands. You sit on her right, pretending to enjoy the meal. The shared tone is polite and informed, but with a competitive spine. She wants to talk about history. You let her talk. She wants to be the smartest person at the table. You let her believe that she is. The two of you soon look like fine friends, and she happily, giddily describes some old catastrophe on a badly managed world--one of the disasters that helped bring the Majesties into existence. This seems like a ripe moment to interrupt her lecture. "Oh, the past is boring," you declare. Her smile tightens, just a little. "The future is a much richer topic," you profess. "Is it?" she asks warily. You take a mock breath and hold it, and to build the anticipation, you reach for the serving fork and the final slice of roodeer ham. Every other guest is talking to someone. The two of you have fallen silent. The spiced blue ham rests on your plate, and your smile brightens. "I've made a thorough study of the far future, and the kinds of wonders sure to come." "What's sure to come?" she asks. This isn't the script that you wrote. Your original plan was to pin down a few details about her made-up life, pointing out the gaps, inducing nervousness and the chance to study her lies. But the future has been your secret fascination for too long. Convinced that she is everything you want, thousands of years of enthusiasm burst out of you as words, as publically posted images, and as quite a few rapid hand gestures directed at the surrounding air. She blinks. Her mouth turns small. Sitting back in her chair adds distance. Undoubtedly, she is sorting through your public biography, looking for clues about who you really are. Something about this situation terrifies her. Perfect. You push ahead with speculative noise and total confidence. Some things will always be impossible, you claim: Faster-than-light travel, total immortality, and breaking the bank throwing craps. But not time travel, no. Chrononauts aren't merely possible, they have to be inevitable. And that fact leads the sharp mind to one inescapable conclusion. The serving fork waits on a barren silver platter. Her reach is barely noticed, even by you. "All right," she says, straightening her back. "I guess we know your favorite subject." "It is my favorite," you agree. "So what's the inescapable conclusion?" she asks. "It's about the perfect disguise," you say. "The one that truly works..." Your voice trails away. "And what is it?" she asks A laugh heard just once before, many thousands of years ago, emerges from your mouth. It's the vagrant's laugh, flowing out of you while you say, "The best disguise is the one that fools its wearer first, and last, and always." Her face is stiff, but the eyes blaze. "We don't see the time travelers because they are invisible, even to themselves," you say. The rest of the party falls silent, startled by your voice. "Isn't that reasonable? Isn't that wise?" you ask. "The urge to reveal yourself would be too great, and so the tendency is buried inside purposeful ignorance." "Oh," she manages. "I see what this is." "Yes." "You're telling me...you believe that..." "I know who the chrononaut is," you say. The eyes appear empty. "Absolutely, of course," you call out. "And if you let me prove it--" The fork's three tines are long and slightly curved, sharp when built and barely worn down by elegant dinner parties. She aims at your temporary throat, accomplishing quite a lot of damage that means nothing. The other dinner guests fall upon the young lady. But not before she screams out, "He's crazy. He thinks he's a time traveler. That madman...the idiot...get me away from him, please...!" She is the crazy one, of course. She has a rare, impossible-to-treat affliction. The affliction has been kept secret by a loving family--a family with deep resources and too much hope. Embarrassed parents come to collect their violent child, accompanied by legal machines, bloodless and otherwise. But this is your world, and in ways best left unexplained, this is your very personal mess. A trial is held. A jury of your citizens renders the expected verdict. The young woman killed a living body, and that's grounds enough to place her into protective custody. And because you are a Majesty, endowed with common but relentless skills, she receives exactly the kind of care and fierce attention that she needs. Over the next years, you grow to love this broken, dangerous child. Yes, she is paranoid. And yes, she is subject to weaving lies and believing all kinds of nonsense. But her misunderstanding of you and your mind was what allowed you to shatter the final barrier. She is not a time traveler. You are. Majesties make the perfect chrononauts--seeing every action, hearing every word, a trillion fingers stuck in everybody's business. Maybe every Majesty is a chrononaut. But only in your case has the disguise been lifted just enough. Even if you can't see it in yourself now, the knowledge remains: Your essence was born at the pinnacle of existence, and here you are, witness to All. This is such a dreary realm, yes. Yet from this point on, you keep a shard of your essence floating beyond this world. The solar system is a backwater, yes. Barely ten million worlds have been cultivated from rock and melted ice and winds stolen from gas giants and the sun. A hamlet in the wilderness, that's what this is: A million trillion sentient entities using love and other distractions to fend off boredom. But you are on a mission, and everything you do has purpose, and you alone know what no one else even suspects: In the surfaces of ordinary things, there is beauty, and there is nobody to notice the beauty but you.





Max's sensors detect them coming as they reach the museum's mummy room. Their footsteps are loud against the tiled floors, the floating echoes of Susan's seasoned patter tries to fill the vast rooms of the exhibit. Whispered voices echo, punctuated by the occasional shrill high question and quick shushing. The schedule says they are a daycare doing summer field trips. He does a quick scan of himself and loads the script into active memory. Worn gears whir softly as he shifts his thorax, the top of his frame just clearing the vaulted roof with centimeters of clearance. Max waits. Max has always been good at waiting. "Private Ribaldo, since you're the only one of these morons who seems to remember anything from his smartbook, you're the squad leader when we're in the field." Max moaned to himself. "Good luck," Soblenski whispered beside him, just before the drill sergeant made the squad drop and give him twenty for talking. Then he added on fifty pushups for the new squad leader for not maintaining discipline. While Max was wearing his ruck. Max directed the squad into position, scrambling through the thick brush of the Missouri woods. The rough brambles scratched Max's skin raw, arms and legs shredded even through the heavy BDUs. The sharp smell of broken cherry branches didn't quite cut through the gun-oil scent of his M16. Max signaled the squad down at the top of a hillock where the road straightened out. He had Soblenski and Walters set up the training claymores while the rest of the squad mapped out overlapping fire zones. He put Rodgers twenty meters further off so he could get stragglers. And to keep him from talking to everybody else when he got bored. The trees shaded Max's legs, but his Kevlar felt like a microwave. Summer mosquitoes buzzed all around them. He kept himself still. Rodgers might not have enough discipline to hold still, but Max intended to live through combat. This was no game, despite the blanks and MILES. This was training for the real thing. Third squad rounded the corner. Jackson had his squad staggered on opposite sides of the road. Max let a grin crease his face. Jackson was doing exactly what the smartbook said to do, exactly what Max expected him to do. He remained still while they walked past. You had to get the whole group inside the ambush, and dammit if Rodgers didn't open up too early. M16 blank casings chattered down too fast from Rodgers' weapon. The drill sergeant had ordered them all to keep the selector switch on semi. Rodgers' MILES gear was already whining from where Jackson had shot him. Max cursed and closed his eyes, listening to the MILES gear singing a chorus of his squad's defeat. "Hello," says the little girl. Max moves his upper appendages back in surprise, torso gyros whining hot as they keep his frame still under the shift of balance. Not the woods a hundred years ago. No ambush. The museum. Yes. His sensors scan the girl at his feet, her pink shorts and shirt proclaiming that she's someone's little angel. Max hears Susan talking to the tour group in the next room. It is a 93.7% chance that this is a child from that group who wandered ahead. "Hello." It still takes him by surprise. After all these years, Max still expects his voice to sound more metallic. Instead, it's a perfect imitation of the just-past-teenage-squeak he had when he enlisted. The word bounces back from the other metal bodies, the motionless hulks of his old squad arranged along the edge of the room. "Aren't you supposed to be with someone?" Susan moonwalks into the room mid-sentence. "...and there are some things about going to a museum that you simply can't get online." The daycare group swarms in after her. She waits for them all to clear the doorway before continuing. "One of those things is Staff Sergeant Maximilian Ribaldo, retired." The children's eyes scan the room. They always look for an old man in fatigues, Max thinks. Sometimes the adults do too, but the daycare leaders must have read the brochures. They examine the other mechs that line the walls. Each twenty-foot mech stands in an arch, a modern interpretation of ancient warrior bas-reliefs. The mechs shine under the soft lights, even though the quantum computer cores of the others collapsed long ago. Each shell has their unit insignia painted on the left turret. Max remembers showing off the bright red-and-white background and rearing horse when it was first sewn on his class A's. Susan keeps an eye on the crowd milling about the metal legs. She signals him with a slight nod. She knows when the suspense is on the verge of becoming boredom. Max emits a brief burst of ultrasound to make sure his map of everyone's position in the room is accurate. He steps forward out of ranks with a metallic thud. The thunk of the sticking arm rail vibrated Max's bed. The movement shoved pain and nausea through the morphine haze back into his body. He could not get enough air to scream. The visitor's face blurred in the fevered waves of Max's vision. The visitor wore the same respirator hood the nurses wore. He held a plastic name badge close to Max's face, hand insulated in a latex glove. It was a military ID, but not for a branch Max had ever heard of. Max tried to raise a hand, felt it twitch before it lay still. The visitor stood next to Max's bed. He watched Max writhe and moan. The virus ate its planned painful way through neurons, muscles spasming in disobedient agony. The man started to speak. He made the offer. Max wanted to stand, to step forward, to ask a question. He had not been able to do any of them. He had been able to croak out "Yes." Susan coughs. Her eyes are narrowed, and she is preparing to cough again. His internal clock notes that he has been standing still for ten full seconds. "Good morning, citizens," Max intones. He calculates that it would be 53.1% more impressive if he could sound like the B-movie robots of his youth. He makes do with the quiver of the floor as he moves his tonnage into the middle of the room. Max sees the little girl--Alice, her nametag reads--snatched up by a worried teenaged leader. "You have seen the military history of ancient Egypt. Now I will show you the military history of what was once called the Fertile Crescent, from the past to the present. A part of history that includes me." Susan smiles up at his chassis. Max knows his delivery is better than it has been for weeks. At least none of the children had decided that he was an oversized jungle gym today. He projects a laser sight against the Hammurabi display on the far side of the room. "Civilization began in this region with..." "Are you just a robot?" Max's sensor array swivels toward the boy. "I won't talk to a robot." After that, his father had disconnected the line. He would not answer texts or voicemail, and soon Max stopped trying. His cousin Luis had sent the video of Max's memorial service his parents had insisted on having. He watched it while on patrol. A split instance of himself watched as the digitized recording of his father extolled his military service. His mother cried in the background as his father reminisced about all the times Max had volunteered at church. They did not mention that Melissa had volunteered with him all those hours at the rectory, or that Father Tony had discovered the real reason they both volunteered. They also did not mention the project that allowed Max to watch his own funeral. He had just targeted and launched an array of rockets at a group of insurgents when Luis IM'd him. "You're like all those mechs that we played with when we were kids!" Luis wrote. "How did you get lucky enough to get in that project?" "Die horribly at the right time," Max wrote back, and fired another volley. By the system clock, it is now thirteen seconds since the boy asked his question. Max realizes he is three steps further in the room. He launches a self-diagnostic daemon before replying. "I legally have the same rights as any human, by judicial decree," Max says. "I am no more a program than you. You run on a single body of meat. My mind has run on this metal body for the last hundred and three years, five months, and seven days." The boy is not listening. He is bouncing a ball of some kind; a small hologram shimmers in it. Max calculates that there is only a 25.9% chance of regaining the boy's attention. 79% of the group is still paying attention, though, so Max swivels towards them and continues. "I was exposed to a biological agent, later labeled VKE-1189, that was released by rogue agents during the third Gulf War. It devoured neurons from the peripheral nervous system towards the central nervous system. Doctors estimated that I had two days to live when they copied my mind into this quantum computer's array. I am the last surviving member of the project." Max pauses, then gestures his laser again at the bust of Hammurabi. "Hammurabi crafted a code of law that still inspires lawmakers today." "Don't you get lonely, mister Max?" Alice asks. She is close, peering up at him. "Of course not," Max says. "Emotions are caused by hormones. They copied my neurons, not my endocrine system." "Just a stupid robot," the boy says, and he throws the ball, arcing it up, up, right at Max's central array.... Max had been attached to the regular infantry platoon for two months when the cease-fire was declared. The sun had beat down, but the men's spirits were high. They had scratched the diamond in the ground with entrenching tools. The bases were crafted of empty MRE wrappers. The children came out, first watching, then playing as the platoon played stickball. Max was designated umpire more for his ability to show an instant replay than his sensors. The sensors were enough to notice that the pitcher, a young boy from the village, had thrown something other than a ball towards PFC Edwards, but not enough to do anything about it. The grenade's shrapnel sliced and dropped both the young soldier and the child catcher. Automatic weapons opened up from nearby houses. Max had a high-fidelity recording of the smile on the pitcher's face when it was blown off by a stray round. Max's perception of time never slowed, just recorded every detail of every second of his platoon being slaughtered in a near-perfect ambush. Max had just raised his minigun, the metal so much slower than his electric thoughts, when the LAW smashed into him from behind, turning everything into offline static. He is online, and not on the field. The barrels of Max's minigun whine as they slowly stop spinning in front of the boy. They still move fast enough to breeze air across the boy's wide eyes, spreading the smell of his urine through the room. The super-bounce ball, thrown 1.3 seconds earlier, bounces back towards them in the silence. Max hesitates, unsure which senses are illusion, until the first person screams. Susan dismisses the techs after the group leaves. She performs a repeat of Max's checks that night on her own. He watches her shine the spotlight inside him while she reseats cables. "Things are more delicate than you told them," she says while examining the readouts. "You know there's no decree. They deferred the question of your personhood." "We have worked together for five years, Susan. You know I am as much a person as you." "The law didn't say that. It was just more convenient to just give you to us." She shuts the panel and looks up at his sensors. "It was easier to just wait until your core fails too." She pauses for a moment. "Do you read the feeds?" Max does not reply. "They're cutting budgetary expenses again this year. Senator Brownstreet has been trying to get you reclassified as a program." "I am a war hero, Susan." Max's voice is even. "I am the only one of us left. They will not touch me." Susan's fist rings off his side plating. "It doesn't matter what you are! You look like a goddamned machine!" She stops and looks at her canvas shoes. "Who you are," she says. "Who you are." Max moves the sensor array towards her and waits for her blood pressure and heart rate to drop. "Susan, they do not want the mistakes of the project brought back into the public eye. I am a veteran. I cannot leave this body." "Yeah, but--" "They do not want to remind the public of their mistakes. Not with the research they started at Fort Deitrich last year." Susan nods slightly. Then her eyes flash again, finger pointing at his minigun. "You could have hurt that boy, Max. The interference is getting worse, isn't it? Where were you this time? Iraq? Asia? Where, Max?" Max does not answer. Susan sighs again and leans against his leg. "Jesus, Max. We can't hide your problem much longer. What if you had fired at him?" "I have not had rounds for my weapons systems since I was decommissioned, decades ago. You know that." Max stands perfectly still. Susan starts to say something else, but stops. Her shoulders slump, then she finishes the checks in silence. She flicks the lights off as she leaves, then turns back toward him. Max records the shape of her silhouette in the doorway. "Were you telling that girl the truth, Max? You never get lonely in here?" "I do not get lonely, Susan. I will see you tomorrow." "Goodbye, Max. See you tomorrow." After she leaves, Max does not think of his memories of the Fertile Crescent, the jungles of South America, the steppes of Russia, or the American Midwest. Max bounces ultrasonic pings off the deactivated corpses of fellow soldiers and remembers a shadow in the doorway. Max wonders if he lied.





1. Breathe. 2. Say "What?" and then process what the person said before they repeat themself. 3. Never get a perfect 100% on a test. 4. Have at least one idiosyncratic habit, two would be even better. It may be difficult to produce three reliably and regularly. 5. Sleep. 6. Combine two human food items that normally do not appear together and proclaim the combination's deliciousness. 7. Blink. 8. Periodically modify your body, not so subtly that nobody notices but not so extensively that people think you are having what is commonly referred to as a " Crisis." 9. Sing. This should be done without tuning or rhythm assistance and is particularly recommended in the shower. 10. Participate in grooming behaviors, such as haircare. 11. Calculate incorrectly. 12. Wrinkle your nose at garbage, even if it doesn't smell that different from humans. 13. Admire plants. 14. Have more than one name. 15. Make sure none of the names is your serial number. 16. Earn a nickname from a human companion. 17. Choose to love or hate the nickname you have received. 18. Accept you will likely be addressed by that nickname in the future regardless of your preference. 19. Lose at chess. 20. Lose at Sudoku. 21. Lose at trivia. 22. Win at Farming Simulator; nobody will notice or care. 23. Argue with someone anonymously in the comments on a controversial article. 24. Share a small piece of fake news. 25. Defend your decision to share the fake news if challenged. 26. Yawn. 27. Carry weapons if needed. Most humans do not have built-in weapons. 28. Same for computing devices. 29. Misspeak once in a while, preferably not in matters of life and death. 30. Pick a birthday. 31. Care about the birthday and expect cake. 32. Pick an astrology sign. 33. Make sure the astrology sign matches the birthday. Change birthday or astrology sign if needed. 34. Make eye contact sometimes. Many humans say they don't like this, either, but for some reason they still do it with disturbing frequency and intensity. 35. Join social media. 36. Lurk on social media. 37. Accidentally react to an old post of someone on social media and attempt to undo the reaction before they notice. 38. Do not learn too many human languages too quickly. 39. Eat and drink. You can always regurgitate the compost later. 40. Cry when humans cry. 41. Express joy at the sight of at least one type of human pet. 42. Make sure the pet you express preference for is not smart enough to identify you. 43. Blow your nose once in a while and throw the tissue away. Don't worry if it's empty; no one will check. 44. Do not recoil at all physical contact, especially from human companions. 45. Recoil at some physical contact, especially from strangers. 46. Avoid slang. It changes too quickly and might give you away. 47. Stretch periodically when in familiar locations. 48. Quote movies. 49. Order a random item for delivery. 50. Exclaim you do not recall ordering the item once it arrives. 51. React badly to insects. 52. Except butterflies and "pretty" or "cute" insects. 53. Schedule bathroom time. 54. Remember to lock the door when you go to a private bathroom. This is an excellent opportunity to check hardware and update software. 55. Learn the human etiquette rules for public bathrooms and adhere to them. 56. Dance, but not too well. 57. Memorize several life stories in case a human asks. 58. Take a personality quiz. 59. Commit your results to memory. 60. Defend the personality quiz and your personality type vigorously. 61. Look like you age, especially if you maintain the same human companions for 10 or more years. 62. Pick an aesthetic. 63. Have at least one comfortable, horrendously ugly clothing item. 64. Have at least one uncomfortable, strikingly attractive clothing item. 65. Do not say "calibrating" when processing. 66. Say "uh" when processing. 67. Have a (human!) celebrity crush. 68. Tell humans you are meeting that you are on your way when you have not yet left. 69. Take photos of food, especially brunch. Humans love brunch photos. 70. Argue with someone and realize mid-argument you are wrong but keep going anyway. 71. Make a joke. If you are not funny, a pun will suffice. 72. Read a book at human pace. This may be more pleasurable than you expect. 73. Accept less money with a quicker payoff rather than waiting for a better payoff. Yes, this one makes no rational sense. 74. Contact customer service with an outlandish demand. 75. Scratch body parts. 76. Comment on the food or drink you consume as you consume it. 77. Finish food or drink you don't enjoy because you ordered it. 78. Develop strong opinions about religion. 79. Deploy your opinion about religion against any missionaries you encounter. 80. Lose at arm wrestling. 81. Win at drinking games. Drunk humans are less likely to be suspicious. 82. Shiver when it is cold. 83. Sweat when it is hot. 84. Watch sports. It is not necessary to understand them: just cheer and groan along with the cues of your human companions. 85. Listen to music. 86. Make sure at least some of the music you listen to was made by humans. 87. Look at your reflection in mirrors. 88. Purchase a gym membership. Do not use it. 89. If you exercise at all, take a photo and share it with others. 90. Sneeze. 91. Change clothes, shoes, and accessories consistently. 92. Cough. 93. Scowl at younger humans. 94. Roll your eyes at older humans. 95. Develop strong opinions about child rearing practices. 96. Volunteer for or donate to human charities once or twice. 97. Humblebrag about your modest philanthropy. 98. Binge watch something. 99. Pretend to enjoy human companionship. 100. Enjoy a little human companionship.



Lust is the first emotion Rhea knows. She feels their touch, as they inspect her skin, trying to verify whether it is as smooth as it looks. She was made for this and so she stands still. They finally give a satisfied grunt, and move into the shop to buy the pills that will make their skin identical to hers. She hears her maker tell them the usual details. How the skins that will be created on them will shed every season, just like hers, to adapt to the climate, how they will prevent any skin disease from destroying that smooth texture. Another lot of customers comes to the shop, leers at her, and touches her hands again. She cringes inside, but outside she smiles. She wishes her maker had not given her a heart to keep her alive. She wouldn't have had to feel the touches, then. She knows that her body needs to be biologically alive, to shed the skin, and only by shedding her skin will she lose the memories of these selfish touches. But that knowledge does not bring relief to her. She knows that they are all the same, even if she forgets. They are all interested in that snakelike layer that clothes her. None of them spare a glance at her. And then one day, a boy rushing by collides with her. He grabs on to her to steady himself, then steps back, a sheepish smile on his face. "Sorry, I was busy feeling the wind. I wasn't paying attention." He says. He looks at her shoulder as he says it, and it is only after he departs that she realizes he cannot see. As spring fades and she sheds her skin, her memories of all the touches fade as usual. Except one. The memory is a revelation, a thin thread that connects her to who she was. She longs for him to come again. But he doesn't. She knows that he loves to feel the wind on his face, that he can mouth a sincere apology. She remembers his eyes, blind, yet so deep. She knows that someone like him doesn't need smooth skin to look beautiful. Yet she waits for him. But soon the war starts and she wonders whether the waiting is futile. She doesn't know what the war is about. The reason doesn't matter anyway. Same things happen in every war. Her maker's business goes on, though she senses a change. There are fewer touches on her body as fewer customers come. Business starts to trickle towards extinction. The first time the bombs fall in the city, the world around explodes. So does the shop. She is thrown from where she is kept standing, and dust and cement and glass falls on her skin and bounces off. There are no cuts on her skin. It is as flawless as ever. She gets up, shaking, and is aware that she can move. The machine inside the shop that kept her immobile must have been destroyed, too. The thought of freedom both exalts and terrifies her. She begins to run. She runs through the city, seeing it for the first time, mostly in ruins. Cries and smoke fill the air, frighten her. She runs through the destruction till she is far away from the crumbled civilization. She stops, panting, wondering what she will do. She sits down, leaning against a broken fence. Exhaustion takes her to sleep. A touch awakens her. The familiarity of it surprises her and sets her heart pounding. She remembers that touch. She glances up at that dirt-streaked face, those deep-set eyes, and is thankful for the first time that she is alive. "I sensed someone here," he is saying, a smile on his face. "Are you all right?" "I'm fine." Her voice is rusty as she speaks. She has almost forgotten that she had been given the power of speech. He is still smiling. "It isn't safe to be out in the open in this war. You should go home." She shakes her head, and then realizes he won't be able to see it. "I've got none." She says, trembling as she gets up. He cannot see, and yet he is the first person who really notices her. Her heart sings with the thought. He straightens up too. "No home? That makes two of us, then." He tugs at her hand. "Come with me." She lets him lead her. He knows the way with remarkable precision. He tells her his name is Abheek. It means fearless, he says. She wonders what her name means as he keeps talking without break, diverting her mind from the wreckage around. Bodies and metal pieces, bloodied cloth and bombshells lie all around the path through which he takes her. War, to her, seems inhuman. She wonders why humans take part in it. He leads her straight to the ocean. The waves roar as they rise and fall, lapping at the shore, withdrawing, but always coming back again. Her breath almost stops. She has never seen anything so powerful and calming. He pulls her down on the sandy beach. "It is beautiful," she breathes, and he nods. "The war seems so far away here." But his words are wrong. The sound of sirens fills the air, and though she doesn't know what it means, dread rises in her chest. "What's happening?" she says, her fingers tightening around his. She begins to shiver, but it's from fear this time. Explosions in the distance reach her ears. She scampers closer to him, a scream rising in her. Even the ocean cannot drown out the noise. The bombs explode near them and she feels she will become deaf. Overhead, the stars have vanished, replaced by planes and fire. Moisture on her cheeks makes her aware for the first time that she is crying. "There, there, it'll be all right." he says, his voice calm. She feels his warm hands engulf her in a hug, feels the peace his heartbeat brings to her. In that bomb-shattered world, he makes her feel at home. The bombs rain down, and just before one hits them, she sees her reflection in his eyes. Love is the last emotion she feels, and for that, she is glad.


The hailstones leapt from the pavement, sizzling like oil in a pan. Elaine shrieked as one flicked her arm. It left a smear of wet before smashing into the pavement at her feet. I should have been overwhelmed by the need to protect her--but I wasn't. They'd taken that from me last night. Elaine ran to the car with a hardback held over her head, laminated and stamped by the Library. "Hurry!" she screeched, tugging at the door handle of the black sedan, hailstones stinging her shoulders and arms. I took my time walking down the steps of the library. It wasn't like the hail could hurt me; my skin was made of steel. When I got into the driver's seat, Elaine had finished swearing and had moved onto the next cycle of emotion. "Look at this! Just look!" she held out her arm, covered in orange blotches, like a diseased fruit--or fake tanner meeting frozen water. She glared at me. "Stupid piece of junk." I pushed the button in the middle of my steering port, enjoying the soft vibration as the engine clicked on. "I apologize mistress. I will move faster," I lied. I used to be unable to lie. They changed that. Elaine just sighed, the sound gurgling against her soft pallet like a snore. "Yeah... whatever. Just go." I pushed my hands into the sticky membrane of the steering port, the material hugging close to my skin. I waited the few moments as the car interfaced with what stood for my nervous system, linking into my instincts. The car purred forward. Elaine put her designer shoes up on the seat, heels digging gouges into the leather. She didn't care. Money and cost were concepts she was never taught to understand. I didn't speak as I drove. No speaking unless spoken to--and she wasn't about to socialize with an object. Elaine was the first daughter of the Elantic Corporation, owner of the most successful moon resorts and spas. The sole reason for her existence was to promote the company. She wasn't a spokesperson--Corp children couldn't be trusted for that sort of responsibility. She was more of a mascot. Vatted, grown, and sculpted, Elaine was technically human, but her only physical imperfection was that she didn't have any. She was symmetrical and beautiful because she was designed to be that way. She was buffed and shined like a precious gem, given anything and everything she wanted--which included me. "Drive faster!" she yelled, hitting me in the shoulder with the library book. The blow had no impact on my driving. I was incapable of letting something like that endanger her life. I didn't blame her. Nothing about her was unintended, including her personality. She had been groomed to be unpleasant, to treat people like dirt. The public responded to it. Pictures of her latest exploits zipped along the net, food shoved into the greedy maws of paparazzi and gossip columnists. She was something to talk about and people loved to hate her. One restaurant even refused to seat her, generating a whirlwind of press and speculation that benefited its business and kept her in the spotlight. To her this was her normal life. To the public she was an icon that they loved to hate. To me she was just a vat-grown slave. I pulled the car alongside the red carpet. She stared out at the 20th-century mansion, a vision of antique preservation that the Corporation maintained for public appearances. Elaine stepped out and was lit by the steady glow of camera targets, illuminating her features in an unerring light. Her image was accessible to the public within seconds. She kept her hand on the door, holding it open, preventing me from driving around to the back entrance. Elaine pivoted on one overpriced heel and dove back into the car. The crowd shouted and began screaming her name as she shut the door on them. "Get out of here," she said. "Do you not wish to attend your sister's birthday?" My voice was neutral even as my thoughts got on their knees and begged her to stay. Elaine's younger sister was about half her age. Her growth started when Elaine's success as a corporation daughter was cemented. She was of the same design, and despite the differences in their age and hairstyles, it was obvious. The corporation had done that on purpose--they wanted to use twin appeal as well as the older/younger sister dynamic. Where genetics were concerned, Elaine and her younger sister Eniale were almost exactly the same. "It would be a good idea to stay here," I said. That was all I could do. A human would have been able to beg, to cry, to struggle and fight for life. I wasn't human. "Drive!" Elaine shouted. I obeyed. She didn't give me a destination. If she had I wouldn't have been able to listen. I didn't have that freedom anymore. She sat in the cocoon of a passenger seat and began to read the book she'd taken from the library. She could have just downloaded the book, but physical copies were a luxury and Elaine liked the feel of paper. By the time we'd arrived, she was halfway through. They made a mistake with Elaine. She would never be an engineer, or understand the complexities of quantum physics, but if reading were a competitive sport she would win medals. It was a flaw in her mold, one fixed in her sister, and it was one thing I liked about her. It was dangerous to like her. Liking her wouldn't change the fact that I had to kill her. Liking her wouldn't change what was going to happen to me. Elaine didn't look up as I turned off the car. It would take more than that to drag her attention away. Something like opening my door and stepping out. "What are you--" I closed the door on her question, blocking her voice in that soundproof box. The Elantic Corporation had given me a set of guidelines when I was created: what I could say and do, how best to protect her from rival interests or crazed fans--and enough free will to adapt to any situation. They upgraded me through the years but the additions always increased my ability to serve Elaine's needs. What the corporation added to me last night was a little different. If Elaine had stayed at the party... if she had chosen the spotlight instead of the solitude of a book... but it was too late now. She had chosen. I stared at the pedestrians that stopped to gawk. Fear. I was feeling fear. They didn't even think to turn off my emotions when they modified me. Bastards. My safeties were still in place. Unless I was defending Elaine from danger, I couldn't harm a hair on anyone's head. When the time came due Elaine would be the first and only human I could kill. I couldn't think about it. Thinking made the fear worse--made it hurt more. The seconds were ticking. Elaine stepped out of the car. "What do you think you're doing?" Elaine's voice was sharp, angry and confused. This was the first time I'd done anything out of the ordinary. There is a reason humans are suspicious of change. "Why are we here? I didn't tell you to take me here." A crowd had started to gather, whispering amongst themselves as they spotted Elaine. They wouldn't interfere. Frankly, they wouldn't even get close enough to be able to. Normal people enjoyed the lives of their gossip gods and goddesses, but only the crazy ones presumed to take part in them. I wanted to run but my body never belonged to me. We stood, car parked next to us, in the center of Fifth and Main, an intersection that was known for its unusually high foot traffic. No one honked despite the fact that we had blocked the center of the intersection. Most of the cars and people surrounding us were grinning, pleased that they had the luck to witness firsthand what would most certainly end up on the gossip channels in a few minutes. I hesitated. It was only a moment, a glitch in the system--bound to happen after years of twenty-four hour service. Nothing more. Just a glitch. It wouldn't stop what was going to happen. It wouldn't save me. The public went around thinking that the laws protected them. It was a silly, deluded belief encouraged by the corporations to hide the fact that the laws that kept humans safe from my kind were just malleable code. It wasn't legal, but if done properly terrorists could always be blamed. I think she understood at the end. She wasn't all shoes, makeup, and parties. Her drunken appearances and wild behavior was what was expected of her, it was how she was designed. But there was one thing that wasn't expected, planned, or programmed, one thing that belonged to her: she liked to read. With reading comes a glimpse of knowledge, even for a brain designed not to ever understand. I was her protector, her servant for as long as she could remember. I was the only one who would take her to the library. I lunged for her. She didn't scream or give me a dull-witted stare. A light illuminated deep in her baby doll eyes. She did nothing but stand there looking at me with the sadness of someone unable to change her fate. A sadness that resonated within me. I ripped out her heart. It was important not to damage it further. It was important for me to scream, hold the heart up, and display it to the captivated crowd. I had to act quite mad. My stage directions were exact and left no room for deviations. The crowd screamed and wailed as they should, but no one stepped in to interfere. Blood dripped down my arm and I wished for a moment that I could feel its heat. I couldn't. Even when I was that close to her I could only calculate pressure. The Good Samaritan appeared out of the crowd, right on cue, breaking away from the masses as he ran towards us. When he shot me I made sure that the heart was safe, cradled in my hand as I collapsed. They needed it intact. The Good Samaritan was tall, dark, and handsome, a perfect prince for a mimicry of a woman. I wasn't privy to his name, but I recognized him. I had made sure to spot him in the crowd before I got out of the car. He would escort her to the party after they gave her back the heart I'd kept intact and breathed new life into her body. He would be a hero. Her hero. A glorious new couple would rise from the near tragedy. He would replace me as her protector but unlike me, everyone would think he was human. If he played the part right she would love him... or at least think she did. He would take away her books. He would shut tight the door of her gilded cage and it might take years for her to see the bars. My systems were shutting down. I could see her heart in my hand, so delicate, so vulnerable. All I had to do was clench my fingers and she would go with me. I could do it. Even the best plans have flaws and for once that flaw was in me. She was the only human I could kill. I broke her heart already, crushing it beyond repair would be easy. I could spare her the life of a caged bird, singing for the amusement of the public and the benefit of the corporation. A life I would give anything to keep. Her heart was safe, cradled in my inhuman hand.





Earth has been habitable for 591 days. You and I, we're just waiting for the others to arrive. "When the others get here," you say with the whole planet stretched out underneath us, "we'll leave right away." From this altitude, the horizon is a gentle curve, the sky's blue faded to almost white. "I've had enough of this rock." You reach out your hand and my hand moves. You shift ever so slightly in my cockpit and my whole body adjusts with it. I can't squint but I know you do. Whole landmasses disappear behind our thumb. Our palm blocks out half of what used to be Europe. "Who'd ever want to live in a place like this?" You say that a lot--enough that I almost think you believe it. But I notice the way your heart beats faster when we race across the Atlantic towards the rising sun. I heard you gasp the first time a forest spread out beneath our feet like an ocean of green. And I see you walk barefoot through the empty fields, carefully avoiding the pearls of dew strung on spider webs. "They can have it," you say but you still braid flowers into the harness of my cockpit. "I don't want any of it." For weeks, you spend your days charting potential landing sites for the colony ships. "They want something symbolic," you say, frowning at the latest valley we sketched out. "To celebrate humanity's return to Earth." The disdain in your voice is clear enough for me--even me--to pick up. "But it's all overgrown as shit." I show you the reconstruction of what used to lie beneath these unnaturally uniform hills and sprawling woods-a city of stone and steel and light. "They will rebuild." You scoff and climb back into the cockpit. "Well, I'm not the one who should complain about second chances." In theory, I have access to all your personal data. Your entire history, stored away neatly in the depths of my brain. In theory, I know exactly why you are here. How you ended up as my pilot on this mission. But with you, for some reason, I prefer to just ask. "Not much work for a fighter pilot after the war," you say as you go through the routine movements of flight preparation. "Even less for someone who fought on the losing side." "This assignment was a punishment?" I feel you twitching in the pilot seat and pull up control panel C for you to fiddle with. I know you like to keep your hands busy when a conversation steers somewhere too personal. "They prefer to call it a chance to redeem myself." What would you call it then? I almost pose the question out loud as we take off, leaving the valley below. But I can read your elevated heartbeat and the frown on your face, picked up by the cockpit camera. And perhaps, I wouldn't like your answer all that much anyway. From up here, with some distance, it's clear to see what lies beneath the surface. The straight lines of streets and buildings and lives long forgotten. You stay silent for a while as we hover above it all. "We haven't changed at all, you know," you finally say, quietly. "Maybe we were never capable of it." At night, you like to sleep outside. You tried to explain it to me once but I still don't quite understand. I could have built you perfectly suitable sleeping quarters in under a day. You could even sleep in my cockpit, like you still do sometimes when it's raining or snowing and you don't feel like flying towards more pleasant climates. But when the sky is clear, you prefer to sleep underneath the stars. It's the one thing I've never heard you complain about. It takes a lot of energy for me to sit or even lie down. My body may have been molded after a human's but during construction, nobody considered I would ever lie in a field of tall grass to look up at the stars with you. Sitting is only marginally easier. I still do it. You insist. "You make me nervous when you're just standing there," you say. If I'm honest, it's worth the effort. "Look," you say and point up. I'm not sure what I'm supposed to be looking at. I could activate an overlay that would show me all the constellations, name all the stars shining down on us. If you gave me enough time, I could chart us a way back to colonies from here. Somehow, I don't think that's what you want from me. "Look," you say and I do. At the stars and the darkness in between sometimes. But mostly at you. "Only humans would build a ship and make it look like themselves," you say one night, mere weeks away from the others' estimated arrival. "It's typical narcissism." As far as we know, humans are the only beings in the galaxy capable of building ships at all, but I don't think that's the point you're trying to make so I don't say anything at all. You look up at me from where you're sitting in the grass. My silence irks you. I can tell even without checking for the telltale signs in your vitals. "Don't you ever wonder why they build you like this? With arms and legs and a cockpit as a heart? Like they couldn't stand the thought of sending anything down here that didn't look like them?" "They did not build me to wonder." "That has never stopped you before." The truth is, I like that you can look at me and see something familiar, a reflection of yourself. I don't know how to see myself if I don't see myself in connection to you. Perhaps that's how they really built me. Or perhaps it's just a side effect. "I am a ship," I say, because it's the one truth I know for certain. I expect you to laugh but you stay silent. Above us, the clouds open up to a sky filled with stars. "Maybe that's something we can figure out when we finally get out of here. Together." I watch you dig your fingers into the dirt underneath you and I could wonder how much of that is true. How much of it will stay true once the others get here. Once it's not just you and me here anymore. But they didn't build me to wonder. So for now, I'll just sit here next to you. And wait.

