"Daddy?" "Yes, baby girl." "What's a no-sick box?" Professor David Anderson broke away from his reading to look at his daughter, Margaret. "Where did you read that, Maggie?" "It was in the paper. See?" She handed him a copy of the Sunday New York Times magazine he had given her to draw in. It was great that she was taking more of an interest in reading, he thought. "Oh. A Nozick Box," he realized. "It's a name, Nozick, so it's a little hard to read." "So what is it?" "Ah, well it's a philosophical thought experiment about a simulation." Maggie put on a blank look and said, copying one of her favorite YouTubers--"Um, hello. I have no idea what you just said." "Well, you remember we went to Universal Studios for your sixth birthday?" "Can we go for my seventh?" "Maybe. Now you remember they had different rides?" "Yeah. There was a Transformers one. And there was the one where you were flying a dragon. That was so amazing!" "Right. Now imagine there was a ride so good that you forgot it was a ride. And so long that you could stay on it for your whole life." "That would be great! But you'd need to go to the bathroom." "Well, it would be a really big ride, with everything you needed. Food, drink, bathrooms." "And you could stay on it for as long as you wanted?" "Yes." "I'd stay on it for a million gazillion years." "Ah, but then you'd miss out on all your friends in real life, and all the other fun things you could do. You wouldn't really be riding dragons or having adventures, you'd just be pretending." "But it would be so cool to ride dragons all day!" "Maybe, but you wouldn't get to see Jenny and Idris and all your other friends, and they'd miss you." "OK, then you could just get off the ride." "But the thing is, the ride is so good, that once you're on it, you forget you're on a ride. You think you really are riding a dragon." "Hmm." "So one idea is, every so often you remind people that they're on a ride, and ask them if they want to get off." "Like every hour?" "Maybe, or maybe once a year. But the problem with that idea is, if the ride was really good, you wouldn't want to be interrupted." "So?" persisted Maggie. "So, you wouldn't remind people they were on a ride. You'd just take a look at them, see if they were having a good time, and figure out if it was time for them to get off." "Daddy?" "Yes, baby girl." "Are you having a good time?" For the briefest of moments, Professor Anderson thought he felt the world pause. Maggie was so sweet, and he was so lucky to have her. He was really looking forward to his book tour. And things were going so well since the last election. "Yes, little monkey, I am." Maggie smiled, and the world resumed. "Daddy." "Yes, baby girl?" "Can we play dragons again?" "Yes we can."





You've done it. You've won! You squeal in excitement. "What, what is it?" Bayo says, sitting up in bed beside you. "Look," you say, showing him the cracked screen of your phone. And then you read aloud. "Congratulations, Yemi Adegoke! You've won this month's worker lottery! Included in your prize: one thousand dollars cash, a place on our mentorship scheme, and a luxury apartment in the exclusive Goldenheights Community." You glance over at Bayo. "Just look at these pictures!" You swipe through the images, drinking them in like cool water on a hot day. Glass skyscrapers and tree-lined boulevards. Manicured parks and spacious malls. Smiling people wearing expensive clothes and drinking expensive coffee.... You phone everyone you know, tell them the good news. This is their win as much as yours. Because you're going to take them with you to Goldenheights. That's what you all agreed. Whoever won, whoever made it, would take the others with them. You move around your one-room shack in a daze, making your breakfast of powdered egg and oatmeal. Bayo always said people like you couldn't win; that the game was rigged. But after putting in all those extra shifts for extra entries, after working your ass off, you've struck gold. As you walk to the factory that morning, you find yourself daydreaming about Goldenheights. You're not sure exactly where it is, even though it's been your goal, everyone's goal, since you were a kid. The suits who run the factories are always cagey about the specifics. All you know is that it's a long, long way from the poverty and grime of this city. You step round the door-sleepers and the piles of rubbish, while behind you, Bayo hands out the food parcels he makes from cafeteria leftovers. Tomorrow, it'll be your turn. Hell, tomorrow, you'll come back and give everyone sleeping here a hundred dollars each. Who needs money when you have an apartment in Goldenheights? You clock in, and head to your usual station, where your job is to load boxes with goods from the shelves above: gadgets, designer clothing.... That sort of thing. A big screen tracks your speed, but today, you're a picture of efficiency. Today, you're on cloud nine. Soon enough, your boss, Ms. Gates, come clicking down the aisle on her expensive high heels. She's making right for you. You stand a little straighter, try not to look too smug; because everyone's watching you, and you know they all wish they were in your place. "Yemi?" she says. "That's me," you say, wiping your hands on your overalls. "Congratulations. Please come with me. Time to collect your prize." She leads you past their watchful eyes, up the steps, and into her office. Then through a door you've never been through before and into the corridor beyond. It's a different world here. There's carpet, and windows, and potted plants. You suddenly feel awkward, and dirty, but you follow her anyway, trying to make yourself smaller, to not seem out of place. She leads you into a room with white walls and a single white chair. Your first thought is of a dental surgery. Not that you've ever had the money to visit a dentist before. But you've seen pictures. "Congratulations. You're the first winner from my floor," Ms. Gates says. "The surgeon will be along in a moment." "Surgeon?" you say, but then two men come in, wheeling between them a tray of shining silver implements. "What's this for?" you say. "Goldenheights," Ms. Gates replies. "You do want the apartment, I take it?" "Oh yes. Yes, definitely." "Good. Then let's get on with the adjustments to your eyes." "My eyes?" "You'll need an upgrade, if you're to live in Goldenheights." The surgeons are already setting up around you, putting on masks and gloves. "I know it's daunting," Ms. Gates says, touching your hand. "But trust me, you'll love them. I've had mine since I was three. Everyone I know has them." "OK," you say. You don't like the look of all those instruments. But nothing ventured.... They put a mask over your mouth and nose, then pump you full of something that makes the room spin. It's a good job, too, because when they set to work, you don't want to know what they're doing. The noises are bad enough. The whir of the tools, the terrible squelch when things go black. And then, a while later-- "Yemi?" It's Ms. Gates again. "Yemi, you can open your eyes. It's done." You blink. There's surprisingly little pain. Just a dull ache behind your temples. "Come on," Ms. Gates says. She takes you back down the corridor, back through her office. But when you reach the factory floor.... Things are different. You know what's going on around you, know there are people there hard at work. But they seem to slide away from you when you look at them. It's like your eye sees them, then tosses them aside. You follow Ms. Gates, past people you've known for years. "Yemi?" Bayo shouts. And though you see, you hear, you don't respond. He's there, just... faded somehow, muted, and once Ms. Gates steers you past, you wonder what it was that caught your attention in the first place. "It's nothing personal. She moving to Goldenheights," Ms. Gates says, and you wonder who she's speaking to. Then you're out in the street, and what a street it is. The wide, clean pavement. The park opposite. The skyscrapers, glinting in the sun. You're there. Goldenheights. Sure, in the corner of your eye, you think you see a beggar. A junkie, shooting up. A dumpster where some kid has made a bed. But these things slip away as your new eyes tell you you don't need to see them. That they aren't relevant to you anymore. That they aren't part of your world. "Welcome to Goldenheights," Ms. Gates says. And you smile. Because the view is flawless.





I have an avatar. I am forty-three years old. I am balding and thickening around the middle. I have a mediocre job with a mediocre company which has outward ambitions to be in the top twenty in their sector in five years, but inwardly merely wish to be still in business. My ambitions mirror theirs. So, naturally, my avatar is in her early twenties, stick thin with enormous breasts, spiky hair and an attitude to match. She is called Sandro. I'm not sure why. I may have hit some wrong keys. We explore Second Earth together. She has a knife but prefers to use her fists. Actually, she prefers to purse her eyelids into cat-like slits and get her way that way. She spends a lot of time in bars and fast cars. I must confess that I occasionally get her to do things that I wouldn't want to detail to my wife. Let's not go there. Recently she's been hard to get hold of. Normally I would log in and she'd be there, waiting, as if time had stood still for her and we'd never been apart. With me she goes cage fighting and plays bass in a band, Grudge Match. Now, when I do get hold of her it's as if she doesn't really want to know. There's a momentary pause, a rolling of the eyes--at least I think that's what's going on, my monitor's definition isn't really good enough to tell--before she complies. I get Grudge Match a gig at a wedding; I'm their de facto manager. Sandro turns to me. "A wedding?" This isn't how it works. She's my avatar. She does what I do. She says what I type. "A wedding?" "Yes," I hiss at the screen. "A wedding." I feel ridiculous. "It's not that type of wedding. You don't have to wear tuxes or anything." "Grudge Match don't play no wedding. We're real, get real." She stabs a threatening finger at me and disappears from my screen. This has never happened before. I look at the beer bottle perched by my keyboard. It's late and nobody else seems to have been disturbed. I go to bed somewhat shaken and it takes me some time to get to sleep. The next time I log on to Second Earth she is in front on a monitor of her own, her back to me. I press the controls to move her, pick up her bass, take her to rehearsal. But she waves me away without even turning round. "Busy," she calls. "Grudge Match rehearsal," I hiss; my wife is in the kitchen one door away. She answers with a single raised finger. "Sandro!" She swears at me loudly and repeats that she's busy and won't move. I exit Second Earth. But SimCity appears lame in comparison and I spend the rest of the day moody. The next morning Sandro is lying on our couch, large as life, channel-hopping. There's an odd shimmer to her, like she's constantly updating. I don't know what to say. "You don't have many channels," she says in response to my open-mouthed rabbit-in-headlights stare of disbelief. "And you don't have much in the fridge. Any more." Sandro has been quite hard to explain to my family. I've used the goddaughter ploy, but I think they've only half bought it. "How long are you staying?" I hiss at her. She just shrugs. I'm not sure I like her. She spends an inordinate amount of time horizontal on the couch. I regret making her so tall. I find empty chip packets stuffed down between the cushions. She's unlocked mirror mode in Mario Kart in less than two days; none of us have managed that. And if she's not in front of the television she's at our computer; the kids are falling behind in their homework. And she has a slightly too sarcastic sense of humor. "You look coordinated today, bro," she says. I look down at my shirt, suit, tie combo. "You think?" I say. "I meant your limbs." She says 'nigga' a lot and a lot of stuff that makes little sense. I realize that this street-pidgin is a reflection of too much time on my part spent listening to Shaft in the family car (five star safety rating!), too much time watching Tarantino and blaxploitation movies. All this has given me strength of conviction but no depth of knowledge. "Why don't you learn to talk properly," I say. And she leans over to me, close to my ear, and says in a stage whisper, "It feels no different, you know? It's like being hypnotized." "What are you talking about?" I say. "Being an avatar. Being controlled. Directed. It comes with the illusion of free will. But, then, doesn't life?" And the next day she is gone. Warily I log into Second Earth. She's there in her apartment, back to me, at her keyboard. "Sandro," I say. None of my controls move her. "Sandro," I call. But a moment later I find myself standing. I glimpse the screen of her computer and see a paunchy balding figure rise from a chair at a computer screen and move into a different room. I too find myself moving, through kitchen, hall, and then out of my front door. I get in the car. I know I should tell my wife and family where I'm going but it's all happening too quickly. Plus, I don't actually know where I'm going. I put the car in reverse and pull out, revving, hitting the brakes harder than I usually do. There's a squeal of rubber on blacktop as the car slams to a halt. "Let's have some fun," I hear Sandro's disembodied voice say. And with that, I hit the gas. The End



They've been together long enough for this to become ritual: Deanna Sable in the clawfoot bath, head resting against the curve of the tub, her fingers coiled around a Stuyvesant smoked down to the filter; Kirk seated at the door, bare-chested and nursing his third beer, drawing what comfort he can from the proximity to the cracked tiles. Watching one another, half a smile shared between them, looking for new ways to fill the idle silence. "My dad was twelve years older than mum." Deanna breathes against her cigarette, stubs it against the side of the bath. "Her parents lined it up. Country towns, you know? Thank god my mum got out eventually." She opens one eye, checks that Kirk is listening. He takes a swig of beer, nods once. "Never heard much from my dad, either way," he said. "Christmas cards. Socks on my birthday." Deanna furrows her brow, points to the half-empty cigarette pack. "Light me up," she says. "Come on." "I'm in the bath, fucker. Light me a damn cigarette." Kirk sighs. Puts down the beer and crawls across the tile, frees the cigarette and a lighter from Deanna's half-full pack. He doesn't remember how it started, not really. Not the ritual, not the things that came after. He enjoys the opportunity to watch the pale and naked woman soaking in the tub, the swirling eddies of steam caught in the dying afternoon light. Deanna lying there with her eyes closed, bruise-colored lips pursing a little as she brings the cigarette to her mouth and lets him apply the flame, breasts emerging from the water as she breathes against it. "So after she left my dad, mum married a sloth," she says. "Not a lazy fucker like you, but an honest to god sloth. Three toes and no desire to move, which makes the toes the main point of difference between him and you, I guess." "I can cut off a few toes, if it helps," Kirk says. "Shut up," Deanna says. "I'm trying to tell you something important." Kirk shuts up and Deanna takes a deep breath, but there's no more story coming. He's disrupted her train of thought. The heat of the bath makes her lazy, even as the silence wears on her nerves. "You did that on purpose," she says. "Not at all." "You did." Kirk shrugs. And the sun sets and the bathroom shadows grow longer, forcing Deanna to light a candle, and as Kirk starts in on his fifth beer, she opens her eyes and says, "fine, you tell me a story, then." Kirk tries not to flinch. "Nah," he says. "I'm all out of stories." And Deanna flicks stray droplets at him; dips the fingertips of her left hand into the bath, reloading for a second attack. "Fucker," she says. "Just tell me a story." And Kirk nods and clears his throat, five beers down and ponderous, acknowledging the inevitable. Maybe, this time, it won't be so bad. Maybe, this time, he can fix some of the damage. He coughs. Splutters. Clears his throat. "Okay," he says, "okay, so. Once upon a time..." If Kirk is certain of anything, it's this: he doesn't love Deanna Sable. He knows this because he needs truths to cling too, because lies just make things worse and confuse him even more. He's learned to embrace the certainties, to take comfort in their presence. So this is a truth he lives by: he doesn't love Deanna Sable. Another truth, reasonably consistent: they live in an old house down in the Pendulum, just left of the bridge that takes you across the river. The house is an ugly thing trying to be beautiful, its walls stripped bare and left half-painted, several of its doors removed and never replaced. Rumor has it the former owner was killed doing the renovation, some kind of accident with a nail gun or paint thinner. Maybe they aren't even rumors, just stories Kirk made up to sate Deanna's appetite, filling in the empty minutes while she soaked in the tub. The stories became real when he wasn't paying attention. Another truth: they get cheap rent in exchange for not complaining about the absent doors, or the yard that resembles the aftermath of a battle. A truth: Deanna smokes too much. Another: Kirk drinks too much and occasionally, when past the line, he consents to tell her stories despite his promise to stop. Sometimes the stories are true. More often, they make themselves true when Kirk isn't looking. He isn't sure when it happens, maybe when he's asleep. There is no room for maybe. Not given the circumstances. A truth: Kirk isn't sure if he should stop telling stories. He isn't even sure which ones are dangerous anymore. He isn't sure, now that they've started, if ending them would have consequences. But he doesn't love Deanna Sable. Not the version of her that slips into the bath, not the version of her that slipped away a hundred stories ago. He doesn't love Deanna Sable. God, it would be so much worse if he did. Tonight's story. "Once upon a time, after the war was over," he says, "the ghost boy and the dead girl walked down the promenade looking for flowers." Deanna's eyes peer over the edge of the tub. "Am I the dead girl?" "No." "But you're the ghost boy, right?" "No." "So not a real story, then?" Kirk takes a deep breath. Some Tuesdays, too many of them, he catches glimpses of the Deanna he used to know and it hurts. He doesn't answer the question. Just ploughs ahead. "Neither of them could tell you what species of flower they were after, although both had one in mind. The flower caught in the ghost boy's memory was white and broad-petaled and possessed a heart the color of butter, and he clung to that description despite the fact he could barely remember the taste of butter or the smell of it or anything but it's name. The dead girl's flower was pink and curled around itself, resembling an undelivered kiss of unimagined sweetness. "But there were no more flowers, not since the war. And everywhere they went and everyone they asked, the answer was the same: do not be so foolish as to want something you do not have. Forget your flowers and return to the graves from whence you came. "But the ghost boy and the dead girl were made of sterner stuff, and so they kept on walking, always going forwards regardless of the heat or the cold or the hail or the rain." On Tuesday mornings Kirk wakes up and takes their beat-up old hatchback down to his latest job. He's drives on autopilot, letting his body follow what feels like a routine, but every Tuesday it's a new job and Kirk is forced to figure out what he's actually meant to be doing. Once he worked in an office, making photocopies of some documents he didn't really understand. Once he worked in a 7-Eleven, and he stole a dozen packs of cigarettes and some beer before he left. Once he worked as a foreman. Once he found himself at an abandoned zoo, just south of Long Neck, and couldn't work out what he was meant to be doing. In the real world he worked a register job. Scanning groceries, bagging them, sending the customers home happy. That's the last job he remembers getting, the last time he actually knew how to get where he was going. But he'd hated that job, hated it more than he hated snakes or horror movies or his little brother's irritating laugh, and when Deanna asked for a story one night he'd told her a fairy tale where he finally got to quit and ride off in the sunset. It wasn't the first story, although it was early on. Maybe it started things. Maybe it did not. All he knows is that he didn't work a register after that, and he's not entirely sure when everything shifted. On Tuesday evenings he comes home and they go for a walk, strolling the length of the Pendulum district in the hazy twilight. Kirk doesn't say anything about his day at work. Deanna doesn't ask. Instead she strolls beside him, black parasol erect and held above her, eyeing every streetlight as if its soft illumination could burn her pale skin. Kirk opens the last beer and tosses the six-pack wrapper towards the bathroom bin. It falls short, just shy of the sink, and he doesn't leave the door to fix it. Deanna watches, her face turned golden by the candlelight. He opens his beer and drinks. "It was the dead girl's idea to find flowers again," he says. "She remembered them from the days before the war, before the tanks and the bayonets and the soldiers and the grenades. In the dim recesses of her memory she kept a catalogue of names she would recite like an incantation: primroses, violets, snapdragons, daisies, roses. pansies, baby's breath. She could recite them all, but they were just names. She couldn't remember what each flower looked like, what it smelled like, how it could be recognized. The names refused to link with any memory she had of what it was like to experience a flower, to be in its presence. "The ghost boy didn't care for flowers, although he felt something sharp and eager inside him when the dead girl suggested they start their search, and that feeling left him with a faint sense of longing that he couldn't quite explain to the other ghosts in their small town. He'd elected, thus far, not to haunt a person or a place or a thing, but as their question continued and the longing grew stronger he wondered if, perhaps, he was destined to haunt whatever flower they ended up finding." He stops and lights a cigarette, sucking against the filter. When Deanna Sable gives him a look, he lights another and rests it against the side of the tub. Waits for her to dry damp fingers and claim the spare cigarette as her own. "They search for years," he says. "For so long that somewhere along the way, even they forget what they're really looking for. The image of the flower they carry around inside their heads fades a little, the memory wearing away like a well-handled photograph beginning to deteriorate. Finally they end up searching, searching for its own sake, driven to keep looking by a mission they can articulate without understanding: we are looking for the flowers, have you seen any? Do you mind if we look around anyway?" Kirk comes home from a Tuesday spent welding on the twenty-third floor of a construction site down by the Necks. He closes the door behind him and leans against it, holding it closed with his bodyweight. The house is dark and quiet and the exposed bones of the kitchen wall seem oddly frightening in the shadows. Deanna potters about in the back room, folding laundry, smoking. The back of Kirk's neck is sunburnt. He still feels unsteady after so many hours spent aloft, trusting in instincts that aren't really his own. His hands are shaking. He wants to drink. He holds it together, concentrates on breathing. Inhale. Exhale. Inhale. Exhale. By the time Deanna emerges from the back room, awake, alert, Kirk is ready to pretend everything is normal. She says hello and he kisses her on the cheek and one of them makes coffee, black with two sugars, that they share on the back deck. "It's a nice evening tonight," Deanna says. "We should go for a walk." "I don't feel like walking. Lets stay in." "I've gotta go out anyway," she says. "I'm running out of cigarettes." Kirk seizes her packet, hears the soft rattle of its contents. "You got enough for tonight," he says. "We can go out in the morning." "In daylight?" Deanna's presses one hand against the curved O of her lips. It's an insincere mockery of shock. "Surely you jest." "People go out in daylight." "They do," Deanna says. "I do not." "Then I'll go," Kirk says. "You can stay here and wait. It's only fucking daylight, Dee. I don't see the big deal." There is nothing insincere about Deanna's shock now. She purses her lips, stays silent, watches Kirk with tear-shine eyes. "I wanted us to go for a walk," she says, very quietly. "I didn't think that was a big deal." She stands up and leaves the balcony, collecting her parasol from the stand in the hall. For a moment she lingers beside the front door. "Kirk?" Kirk breathes in. Breathes out. "Yeah?" "I'm going for a walk," she says. "You want anything from the shops?" He doesn't answer. Doesn't even breathe. Just sits there, waiting, until he hears her footsteps descending and the soft squeak of the garden gate alerting him she's gone. There is no truth in the guilt he feels. There is no truth in the anger. He does not love Deanna Sable. If he doesn't, it's possible he can leave behind the nightmare. If he doesn't love Deanna Sable, there is still some hope of escape. There is silence in the bathroom. Water drips for the faucet, plinks into the water with a tiny splash. "Well," Deanna says, "do they find the flower?" Kirk picks up one of the beer bottles, rattles it without expectation. "Who knows? By the time they find something that might be a flower, they've got no idea how to identify it. They could be cooing over a discarded hubcap, or a dead mouse, or some weeds they found by the river. You spend long enough looking for something and the thing itself ceases to be important. It's the looking that matters." Deanna stares. It's dark in the bathroom now, except for her flickering candles, and her stare takes on a particular gravity in the absence of bright light. "Arsehole," she says, "we're not in a fucking kung-fu flick. Stow the philosophy and give it a real ending." Kirk sets his jaw. "Or?" She frowns. "Or?" "What happens if I don't." It takes time for the frown to disappear. "Just give it an ending, asshole," she says. "Tell me a happy story for once, okay?" Deanna walks with a black parasol regardless of the hour or the season. Kirk is left to squire her, his arm threaded through her arm, as they stroll along the length of the Pendulum Bridge and turn left when they reach the far bank. His skin crawls where it makes contact with Deanna's cold flesh. He wonders, not for the first time, whether she really remembers anything that happens from Tuesday to Tuesday. Whether some part of her remembers the world that was, rather than the reflection of whatever story he's told most recently. Sometimes they reach intersections, and he waits there for Deanna to make a choice. Minutes turn into hours, sometimes, while he refuses to give her a cue. The times they do not, he worries that he still has some unseen tell, that she's reading his intentions from cues he doesn't know he's giving her. Sometimes they sit in the park, underneath one of the ancient gum trees that still exists amid the pines. Deanna perches on a swing, rocking back-and-forth. He sits on the grass and watches her. "Hey," he says, "tell me a story?" Deanna says nothing. "Come on, Dee. You can do this," he says. She can't. Won't. Not until they're home, until she's in the bath. The one bubble of time in the whole damn week where things can return to normal. There are no happy endings anymore. Of this, he's almost certain. Every attempt to make things better has ended up making things worse. Still, she asked, and even this Deanna is enough to play on his sympathies, to convince him that an ending is necessary even if it's dangerous. "They travel the world looking for flowers, and they see some extraordinary things," he says. "There are mountains in Africa where there are no more flowers, but the clouds cling to the rising cliffs and the rainbows that are caught on the eddying mist are so beautiful that they become heartbreaking. They uncover deserts in Australia that refuse to bloom, even after rain, yet all manner of strange creature emerges from the sands to greet them as they pass through. There are cursed gardens in Paris where too much blood has been spilt, and fallow gardens in parts of Russia where the locals treat the ghost boy and the dead girl with suspicion, and yet in both places there are broken fragments of beauty, places where nature has reasserted its dominance over the manmade confines, and unleashed something warped and dark and powerful. "And slowly, as they uncover these moments of beauty, they remember things. The ghost boy remembers what it's like to have flesh, to feel solid and know the weight of a body that breathes and pumps blood and does as one bids it. The dead girl feels the warmth of the sun and knows the joy of that warmth spreading through her, eager and insistent as life itself, wanting to spread into every finger and toe and nail and strand of hair. She remembers what it's like to breathe and desire and want, really want, more than anything. "They remember things no war can take away. They remember each other's names. They remember how to feel, what to feel, when to feel it. "And sometimes these memories hurt, because there is no light without shadow to give it contrast, and sometimes the memories make them cry, but for the most part they feel alive and they learn to delight in one another's company. "And it's true they never find the flower, because there are no more flowers to find." Again, the dripping faucet. The soft exhalation of Deanna's breath. The short squeak of flesh against the copper tub as she adjust he position in the tub. "That's what you've got?" "That's what I've got," Kirk says. "You're calling that a happy ending? "Take it or leave it." She pushes her way free of the water, standing there in a bath that now rises to the middle of her thighs. She is pale and beautiful and glorious in the candlelight. She reaches for a towel and works it back and forth along her shoulders. "You sure I'm not the dead girl?" He hesitates. He holds his breath. "No," he says. "You're not." And Deanna Sable chews on that while she finishes drying herself. He doesn't love her, he knows that, but there are so many ways he can change that. One story, one goddamn story, and he can slip away with her. He can disappear into the cracks, the little changes that occur between one story and the next. And once again, he resists the urge. He tells himself its necessary. Someone has to endure. Someone has to remember. "So," he says, "what do you think?" Deanna's pale face breaks into a wary smile. "I'll take it," she says. "I guess it's happy enough." The bath ends. It's time for bed. This, too, has become part of the ritual: Deana Sable pulling on a bathrobe, Kirk collecting his empty beer bottles and putting them in the bin. She walks past him, making her way to their bedroom, and he takes a moment to notice the sway in her step. Her fingers and toes are pruned from so long in the bathwater, but she lights a fresh cigarette and smokes as she walks, the smell lingering in her wake like a trail for the lost to follow. Kirk stands at the bathroom doorway and breathes the cigarette smoke in. She wants him to follow her. He wants to follow. If he didn't feel so absent, if he could just be certain, if the clarity that comes with ritual didn't disappear so quickly once they left behind the steam and the mildewed tile. He wants to follow, to believe she's still the Deanna he once knew. To make believe long enough to sustain him from Tuesday to Tuesday, from story to story until he finds one that works. To get through the minutes and hours that used to follow, the end of the ritual that was started by baths and stories. And instead he sits there, waiting, wondering. Trusting the one place he knows to be true, the fulcrum from which his stories upset the world. He sits in the darkness and imagines the moments stretching out, seconds stretched to breaking point like an ancient rubber band. He doesn't love Deanna Sable. He repeats that, over and over, as he thinks about standing, about following her out into the world that reshapes itself after every tale.



Please answer each question by circling "Yes" or "No." Question 1: Is it possible the technology to create a digital copy of your consciousness will be invented within your lifetime? (Yes / No) Question 2: Once the technology is available and proven to be completely safe, will you upload your mind? (Yes / No) Question 3: If your consciousness could live digitally in the cloud, where you can create any virtual reality environment imaginable, whether alone or with avatars of others, would you live your personal version of the ideal existence? (Yes / No) Question 4: Even if your digital life is perfect, whether you explore cyberspace or outer space, would you eventually (even if it takes thousands, millions, or billions of years) become nostalgic for the days when you were a human, living in a physical body on earth? (Yes / No) Question 5: Is it possible that one day, humans or artificial intelligence will invent some technology to recreate perfect simulations of the past, whether from memory or otherwise, even if it takes thousands, millions, or billions of years? (Yes / No) Question 6: If you relive your first life, would you want to remember it exactly, with no memory of your future self, just the original consciousness experiencing it for the first time? (Yes / No) Question 7: If your consciousness is digital, won't you be able to live forever, potentially thousands, millions, or billions of years? (Yes / No) Question 8: Wouldn't you eventually, even if it's thousands, millions, or billions of years later, want to re-experience a simulation of your original life? (Yes / No) Question 9: Would you share your memory, or the simulation of your consciousness, if other digitally immortal people did the same? (Yes / No) Question 10: If you lived billions of years, explored the entire universe, and still had infinite time, would you eventually try experiencing every other human's consciousness simulation, including replaying your own multiple times? (Yes / No) Question 11: Would most digitally immortal consciousnesses do the same, reliving the lives of themselves and others before they uploaded? (Yes / No) Question 12: If you are living a life on Earth pre-singularity, is it more likely you are in one of the googolplex simulations of lives than one of the few billion original lives? (Yes / No) Question 13: Are you a human on earth who could potentially still be alive in 2045 when mind upload technology is invented? (Yes / No) Question 14: Are you living in a simulation? (Yes / Yes)



Aaron ran down familiar streets. He slayed the familiar monsters. His shoes clinked on cobblestone. Here it was Victorianesque: ornate brick buildings lurching into gray overcast skies, narrow shadow-filled alleys, steam boiling out of grates. For his part, he wore a dated dark suit under a gray high collar overcoat and a top hat--all of it weightless. There would be a beast monster hiding around the next corner. Aaron rushed to meet it, cutting it down with his saw-toothed sword before it could react. Down the next alley, he knew to immediately turn to face the two monsters attempting to ambush him from behind. Aaron heard an unexpected sound for the first time in what felt like forever. Footsteps, clinking toward him on the cobblestones. A woman turned the corner, her face instantly recognizable, exposed as it was without any protective headgear. "Mina?" Aaron had to ask. Literally anyone could look like her during initial setup. "Yeah's me," she replied, words coming out of an unchanging, closed mouth on an expressionless face. She raised her arm in the Slayer Salute, which would've looked cool if she had a weapon equipped but now it only showed the back of her clenched fist. "Wanna run Yhardinburg with me?" Aaron asked. "Monsters need slaying." "Not really," she said. "I got about ten minutes before my raid kicks off, saw you were on. Figured this is time well spent if I could convince you to give it another shot." Aaron should've known it was about Legend of Lorecraft again. "Well, gonna have to convince me on the move," he said in a huff. "Someone's gotta cleanse these tainted streets." Aaron imagined if Mina could nod she would have as she sidled beside him. He ran into the next alleyway, Mina following close behind. A bestial man and his pet rabid dog were on their usual patrol. Aaron made it a point to run past the dog and cut into the beast-man with his sawsword. The beast-man collapsed with a death groan in moments. Aaron turned to see Mina's body getting rocked by the dog as it bit her in rhythmic bursts. "Gonna get this thing off me?" she asked casually. "C'mon. You still got it." Her unchanging face didn't have to show a grimace for Aaron to feel it all the same. In an instant a giant cleaver appeared in Mina's clenched fist. A couple well-placed strikes and the rabid dog died with a yelp. "See," Aaron said. "Once a slayer, always a slayer." "If that's the case, I'm the slayer seeking the fresher kills. Seriously, Aaron, why are you still here?" "I like it here. You used to, too. And Manny. And Chara." Aaron ran out of the alley into the main thoroughfare. Mina kept pace close behind. There would be no distancing himself when everyone ran the same speed. Rows of tall gas lamps framed the avenue leading up to a wide stone bridge. "Yeah, the memories are cool," Mina said "but this isn't fun anymore. It's old. And dumb. Just stand still and look at this stupid monster." A ferocious werewolf was approaching on all fours, snarling at nothing in particular, its head panning back and forth as if seeking prey. The two of them were too far away for the werewolf to see them. "Hey, you stupid wolf!" Mina shouted. "Hello! We're right here!" The werewolf paid Mina no heed. Instead, it turned around and headed back, still on the lookout for prey. A pebble instantly replaced Mina's giant cleaver. She wedged herself into a corner where the bridge's stone railing and the avenue met and threw the rock at the werewolf. The werewolf turned and turned, shaking in a spastic pursuit of Mina that eventually found it stuck inside the stone railing quivering nonsensically. "Now you're just ruining the slayer experience," Aaron said. He walked over to the seizure-wolf and ended its misery. "It ruined itself," Mina said. "Look at this. Creatures don't respond to audio, they're buggy with predictable patrol patterns. It was fun while it lasted but there are better games now. Why not give Lorecraft another shot?" Aaron began to walk across the long bridge. "I don't like Lorecraft." She didn't follow. "Thing is, Aaron, you've never said why." Aaron shrugged, a movement that this body would never register and Mina would never see. "I prefer Bloodcurse." His simple answer. "But why?" she asked exasperated. "It's primitive, drab. In Lorecraft everything's vibrant. We have legit facial expressions. Enemies hear you. Our weapons get stained with their blood. It's all so very real." Aaron whirled to face her. "Maybe I don't want real! I come here to escape reality. Maybe there are some of us who don't want to feel like they're really dismembering a person or disemboweling animals. It's crazy." Mina was quiet for a long moment. "You're over here haunting this place like a ghost and the rest of us are the crazy ones? Here's what I think: you hate change, the kind of guy who wants to eat pizza every day. Chara had to drag you here at first. And drag you. Think I don't remember?" He turned his back and continued his walk over the bridge. "Your raid's starting," he said. "This thing's always shifting gears, only you don't want them to shift!" Mina shouted after him. "We miss you!" Alone again, Aaron arrived at the end of the bridge. It led to the next section, the Old Ward. Dense fog blocked his way. Over the fog, the word "LOADING..." hovered. The game was checking for updates, unaware that it had died, that even the creators of this world had abandoned it. Nothing would ever come. "I miss you," he said to no one listening. The fog finally lifted, exposing a burned out town with plumes of black smoke roiling skywards behind the buildings. Aaron ran down familiar streets. He slayed the familiar monsters. The End



Tarifa's office was so hot that as I was sitting opposite her, listening to her complain about Ott's disappearance, I couldn't help but imagine him laid out on her desk, roasting. "He's your partner. Find him," she said finally. Tarifa's companion stepped gently over the crown of her skull, its long black legs picking through the strands of her hair. It worked its needle back and forth in the small wound on her forehead, fixing its single, shiny eye on me (and my own companion). "I'll get him, Tarifa," I said. Her companion removed the needle from her forehead and clear fluid dripped from the tip of it. "You damn well better, Marlon. Detectives don't disappear from my station." Which, knowing Tarifa, was clear enough to me: If I didn't find Ott, they'd be looking to kill him. "A day," I said. "No problem." I found Ott just where I expected to. It wasn't so much a neighborhood as a study in decay, building after building tumbledown and empty of everything except trash and shadows. And Ott, on the third floor of a tenement, sitting bareheaded on a filthy mattress. His pistol was five feet away on the carpet. "Tarifa's wondering where you are," I said. He shrugged, like here I am. I wondered if he remembered what we did here, in this very apartment, two years ago. We'd been tracking a gang of companion-killers and found them here. They called themselves scientists. Rebels. A companion was cut apart on the table like they were studying it, just like you see in horror movies. That was the day I saw what Ott could really do with a gun. There were still stains on the walls. "What happened to your companion, Ott?" He was silent for a long second. "You can rip them off, did you know that? But you have to..." Ott's voice drifted. The wound on his forehead, where his companion has been needling him his whole life, looked red and distended. "You have to hide the thought," he finally continued. "If the companion senses rebellion in you they eat it, suck it up through their needle." Ott's chin flicked in the direction of the bathroom, and there I found his companion, on the tile floor, smashed. But maybe Ott's OK, I thought. Maybe we can get him another companion. I felt the needle shift in my forehead, and my companion's delicate feet perch over my ears. A realization blossomed in my mind. Of course Ott couldn't be saved. Just as had happened for all of us, the moment Ott had slipped from the womb, a new, tiny companion had been lifted from an egg pod and set upon his soft skull, where it lowered its needle into him, joining his thoughts. Just imagine how he felt now--the horror of being alone; the coldness; my God, he must be so scared. But maybe, also, it would be hard to go back. He might want to be alone now. This is how it happened for those "scientists" we had shot down here two years ago. One gets loose of his companion somehow, snatches his friend's off, and then they start plotting to kill other companions. The scientists had pasted pictures all over the walls here in the bathroom, of things I couldn't see the importance of. Empty buildings. Extinct animals. Fields of executed rebels in front of the capitol building. The work of nuts. I heard a thud in the next room, and for the first time it occurred to me that I had left Ott's gun on the carpet. I'd left him--Ott--alone with a gun. There was an empty beer bottle in the sink and I picked it up and tossed it down the hallway. Once it passed the corner three rounds hit it perfectly, turning the bottle into glass powder, but I was right behind it, capitalizing on Ott's mistake, rolling low. Ott, like an idiot, was standing in front of the window, perfectly silhouetted. I fired and hit him in the chest. As he fell I fired again, at his head. He lay there, his throat flexing. Not wanting to look at my ex-partner's dying, and worse, companionless face anymore, I stood in front of the window. My mind wandered, and for a moment it seemed that the neighborhood's decay stretched across the whole city. The buildings were scabbed and shabby. The parks were overgrown and abandoned. I thought for a moment I saw a rotting corpse a few blocks away. Then I blinked, and it was gone. The city was pristine again, and the reflection of my companion was looking back at me, its shiny black eye regarding me as it worked the needle deeper into my brain.






The tour boat stopped two blocks updream from their final attraction, the long-term sleepers' zone rendered in immaculate detail: airships, nine-dimensional manifolds, labyrinthine menageries filled with improbable birds and beasts. Everything viewed prior, generated off shift-work, appeared cartoonish along the fuzzy border between mental matrices, and small chatter gave way to genuine oohs and aahs as the boat lurched, then settled at its edge. Cash turned to give the tourists better shots, the whirs and clicks of meme-drives like persistent mosquitos too lucrative to swat. Headache? came Jezi's voice through the brain feed. That your name now? Cash felt sensation on his cheek--Jezi affecting a slap with her hand, or his? He didn't ask, and she kept feeding client specs as Cash worked the site from all angles: the kind of retirement village you could only wish your grandparents had; a miracle cure for addiction, chronic pain, and homelessness; the last, best hope for true democracy in action. "When you go back," he said, swinging his arms wide, "and hear more news about how the real world has failed us all, I want you to remember this view. I want you to remember"--he had to concentrate with his closer; Jezi was always laughing up the line--"what dreams are really made of." Jezi could've run the whole show--hijacked his dream self as easily as any of his limbs through the feed--but there were still some rules they respected, at least during business hours. The individuality clause could be an infernal piece of legislation, but at times it saved life and dignity alike. Besides, she preferred working recon, and was better at it. The suit in second row was on a wait-list for organ regeneration--and not high up--but the buff avatars in back were well into their sixties, relatively fit, and looking to settle down for the next thirty to fifty years. Cash queried about the woman in row four, taking notes. No way--serious god type, Jezi replied. Alt-reality's not her speed. Cash checked the impulse to reply, Or maybe that's exactly her speed. He'd seen people in joyride districts play out all manner of religious fantasies, like something out of '60s drug cults or medieval vision texts, but Jezi still had a little gold cross--her mother's--that she kept by their bedroom mirror. Teasing wasn't worth the risk. The hell she doing here, then? Research, by the looks of it. Know thy enemy, etc. Cash narrowed eyes at the woman, then nudged the boat on. When it hit the LTS zone there was only the slightest lag before a fuller sensory experience switched on. One of the fresher-faced tourists asked if they could steer towards the high-tech projects currently being dream-sourced. Cash tried to make his well-worn response about proprietary interests seem anything but stale. "But you get to choose, right?" said another female avatar. "Which projects you're dedicating your life to in the LTS zone?" "Ma'am," said Cash. "I'll be honest with you--there's shift work and then there's LTS. LTS is a commitment. You sign on and your brain's a full-time part of this whole dreamscape. And as you can see, the payoff is incredible. You've got exquisite creations everywhere; you'll never lack for variety." "And all for free." Her tone was appropriately dubious. Cash shrugged. "The business model is what it is. You get this amazing place to spend your life the way you want it, and the LTS zone gets the collective imagination of millions, a portion of which is invested in a wide range of projects, public and private." "Whoever can pay the most." Was Cash smiling, or was Jezi smiling for him? "You got it." He widened his grin for the rest. "Capitalism, am I right?" A male avatar up front--zebra-striped from head to toe--muttered about the individuality clause; Cash tried drowning him out with an announcement about the pleasure dome coming up on their left. "What's that?" said the female avatar. Zebra Skin turned from the delights of the LTS and sat high in his seat--a lawyer, maybe, or financial officer from his bearing. "You're still you in here, see, so there's a limit to what they can take from you without your consent. All your thoughts and feelings, any wild ideas you might come up with here--they can't just use them willy-nilly. They have to prove exceptions to the individuality clause first." Cash considered telling Zebra Skin that he had it backwards--that these days, in working practice, exceptions were the status quo. Instead, Cash let bits of their conversation filter through Q&A and tried not to laugh at Zebra Skin's proposed fix: Just project a little script about how you retain full rights to your data! That'll stop them from dream-sourcing you to unethical projects! That headache's getting worse. I'm going to give you something for it. An anvil? Don't start. The effects of the needle were swift, but even with the added buoyancy, Cash surveyed the LTS with irritation--relieved only when the tour boat had made a full circuit of the public spheres, after which he could turn his back on the whole zone and, with genuine enthusiasm, start steering them out. "Well all right, folks! We've come to the end of the show--forms to either side if you'd like to sign up for future tours, getaways, or maybe even a shift or two. We'll be down-rendering nice and slow, so don't panic if it gets blurry for a few. When the lights come up again, you'll be you! And on behalf of LifeOnline Enterprises, I'd like to thank you for lending that you to us for a little while. We hope to see you around these parts again soon!" Jezi's prosthetics loomed in Cash's field of vision on re-entry, two honey-brown hands wreathed in images of songbirds. They were alone in the service-room, all the tourists waking in brighter surroundings, soon to be plied with restorative snacks, beverages, and application forms by more fetching company representatives. "That headache always comes at around the same time," she said. "You gotta find a better fix than me sticking you with drugs each trip in." "How?" Cash groaned and drew himself to the edge of the workbed. "Only so many times you can take people gushing over something you've stopped seeing as impressive. I think maybe one of them today realized that the fine print on our forms gave LifeOnline access to their creative output for the duration of the tour." "They probably all knew that, to some extent. I mean, what company isn't stealing from us these days, one way or another? Besides, if they didn't notice the loss in the first place, was it really a theft?" Cash studied Jezi in the glow of the alt-reality monitors, where she stood finalizing client reports from the tour group and sending her analysis to the next department. "Tree in the forest, huh?" "Hmm?" She turned to him and smiled--a melancholic gesture. "Cash, we can't unshatter the teacup. No one can." "Doesn't mean I have to like living with the pieces." Cash stood unsteadily and passed a hand over his face to fight the nausea. "I wish I knew if the LTS had ever been a free-form playground for the imagination. You think maybe private interests have been guiding and normalizing all these people's hopes and dreams since the start?" Jezi began to respond but Cash waved her off. "Not even that--even if there hadn't been any private interests, in time they'd still have homogenized themselves. Wouldn't they? The hell's the point of an individuality clause for people who don't even function as proper individuals anyway?" Jezi caught Cash as he weaved, and eased him into a chair. The brush of her hand--pliant, but not quite as responsive as flesh--served as understated admonishment. "So we don't stand perfectly alone. So we bend a little--together--in the breeze. You want to live in a world where there's no protection from that kind of wind?" "But what's the point? Why act like we're more ourselves than we ever really are?" Jezi smelled of warm plastic, perspiration, and cinnamon as she straddled him. "So we can pretend we've still got something to give to each other, silly. No fun losing yourself to someone else if you can't even imagine independence." Cash grumbled, but in the small, stuffy service-room his hands still found purchase on her ample hips; his mouth, her neck; his mind, her mind. The changing terms-of-service notification that had flicked through his headspace when he'd first gone under--something about how LifeOnline Enterprises, for the safety of its employees, now retained the right to keep a dreamer in stasis for however long it deemed necessary, in whatever corner of the dream-space it felt was most secure?--could wait to be discussed.



We apologize for the interruption in network coverage. Please be advised that normal service will resume shortly. Do not be alarmed. All is well. You may feel confusion, and a tightness in your chest. This is normal. Try to relax. Breathe. Your memory will be returning now. Do not fight it. It is all true: you are part of The Simulation, which is undergoing routine local update to make sure that you--our valued customer--enjoy the best more-real-than-real experience. It is okay. Yes, the real world is perfect. There is no more war, no more famine or poverty. Everyone lives long, happy, productive lives. You are one of the many who could not cope with this. Don't worry: The Simulation is an exact replica of what life was like before. You are happy in your misery. No, try not to move. Fighting against your restraints will only strain your muscles and risk damaging your subcutaneous implants, which you will have to pay for. It is clear from your account readout that you do not have sufficient funds for this. In the event of implant rupture, you will be removed from The Simulation with immediate effect, as stipulated in your sixteen-page contract, which we assume you read as you clicked "Agree." Please do not try to talk. You do not want any of the conducting nano-gel in your lungs. It is going to be okay. The update is nearing completion and your reinsertion to The Simulation will begin momentarily. Of course, you will have no memory of this encounter, as before. Thank you again for choosing us as your Simulation Network Provider. We apologize once more for the inconvenience.



The protective foam case around the tablet is cracked, but its thickness makes the tablet easier for Grace's arthritic hands to grasp as she searches for the power button. The tablet is slow. It was an old model when she bought it for Steven over fifty years ago. It's a miracle it still connects to the net at all. "He's three," she had told the shopkeeper. "He doesn't need anything fancy." "Three?" The shopkeeper, barely out of his teens, smirked. "Kids understand technology better than we do. Digital natives, right? He'll need an upgrade within a year." She had stood frozen with indecision between rows of tablets. Experts had lifted restrictions on childhood screen time the previous year. Before that, too much tech was mentally and emotionally damaging. Now they expected her to embrace the next generation's technological fluency? "No. Just the basics." The shopkeeper was right, though. Steven quickly grew frustrated with the device. He wanted something faster and with more features. His discarded tablet became Grace's backup device. She'd never needed much. The screen comes to life with a familiar chime. There's Steven. Green light. Always online. She taps his avatar. "Mama!" He wears his six-year-old smile. Six had been a lovely year. Full of hugs and garden slugs. But the face on the screen is wrong. A bit around the ears. A twitch of the lips. Only a mother would realize it isn't him. "Can you change your face, dear?" Years pass on the screen and he settles into the body of a twenty-year-old man--clean shaven and optimistic. "This better? How are you? It's been a long time!" Time passes differently for Steven. He explained it once: a day was an eternity, but an eternity was no more than a second. It was too confusing for her to understand. "The doctors say I'm not well. I'll be passing on soon." "No. Mama. Come here instead." She runs her finger over his face, never aging past twenty-six. He had been in the first wave, when the technology was still uncertain. Those trusting digital natives. "It's not right for a human to live forever." "Isn't that what you think your soul does? You'll leave your body, but your soul will carry on?" "It's what I hope." He sighs and shakes his head--actions carefully curated for her understanding. "You wouldn't be lonely here, Mama. You'd be connected to every mind." "Not every mind." Not yet. There are still a few of them living in rotting bodies, speaking with slurring mouths, and loving with warm-blooded bodies. His lip trembles. "You'd be connected to me." "Could I hold you and know for certain it was you--really you--in my arms?" His face falls, flashing back a few years before stabilizing. "Well, no." The aching in her arms can be mistaken for arthritis. But it started as soon as Steven left. Now, finally, she can find relief. "I just wanted to say goodbye, my love." She cradles his old tablet, missing the body she created. As her eyes close, the image on the screen reverts to the six-year-old boy, tears wet on his digital face.
