Admit it, the idea has occurred to you before. Maybe this entire world revolves around you. Maybe everything is an intricate illusion. Maybe you're the only actual person on a show about your life that the universe watches. You quickly dismiss the thoughts, never vocalizing them. Only sociopaths and narcissists would think such a thing. That was Rick's idea. It's not egotistical at all to have those thoughts. They're right. The clues are all there. But Rick suggested that we make such a thought seem self-involved. We created platitudes about humility and instructed our craziest characters to articulate similar theories so that you would be ashamed of forming your own. Rick turned out to be right. We even got so bold as to make a movie about the exact details of this lie, and you still didn't get it. We all had a good laugh about that one. You've doubted yourself for other reasons, too. You think your life is boring. If someone was going to be the subject of a show that the universe watches, she'd be an astronaut or a heroic cop or a human cannonball or something, you've decided. That one was Shirin's idea. Astronauts are boring. They just float around space all day. All of those cop and doctor shows that everyone but you seems to watch? No one watches them. We created them and created people to watch them to throw you off of our scent. Cops and doctors are boring, too. Nothing is so interesting to us as those little moments that you take for granted. We are fascinated by the facial expressions you make as you try to figure out the name of an old acquaintance before he realizes that you have forgotten it. We squirm in delight and sympathy when a waitress says, "Enjoy your lunch," and you reply, "You too," before beating yourself up for it for the next twenty minutes. The moment you noticed that the look of love in your partner's eyes had been replaced with a blank gaze just shred us to pieces. (We were surprised it took you two seasons to recognize it, but we also adore you for your unwavering hopefulness.) You can never know any of this, of course. We can shout it at our screens, but nothing else. We have voted in the twist of self-awareness for a subject before and it ruined everything. We'll never make that mistake again. Some of us are torn up about the secret, but we all know it is essential. Still, during times like this, we wish we could be there to talk to you, to cheer you up. As you walk out of the conference room with your head down, you wonder if anyone has noticed the embarrassing flub of words you made ten minutes ago. "We all noticed," we want to say. "And it's okay."

The God-King of the East lay at her feet, one arrow jutting from the gap between his bronze cuirass and his skirt of studded leather, another through the eyehole of his crested helm. She had fulfilled every part of the prophecy. Born a slave, she had when still a girl slain the slavemaster and gone south into the wilderness. Among the free tribes of the jungle she had lived and learned the dance of war. Before her thirtieth year she was made chieftain. She had loved a good, brave man, himself a chieftain, and built a marriage hut with him. She had killed that same good man in single combat for leadership of all the tribes, as law required and prophecy foretold. She had felled the Holy Tree, slain the Sacred Ram, and from the wood and horn and sinew made a bow with power enough to kill a god. At dawn she had led a host of free warriors and taken all the God-King's city save his palace, which only she might enter. The God-King's slayer, said the prophecy, must face the god alone. On the ground now at her feet, the dying God-King trembled. "You bested me, slavegirl," he said, and coughed dark blood. "It was decided long ago," she said, "by greater gods than you." "Greater, perhaps. Older. Empty legend. Prophecy is all that's left of them." "Yet they guide my arrows." She drew her longknife. "They will guide my blade." "Tell me--" He shuddered. "Tell me why." "Why kill this tyrant who would make my people slaves?" "You would make yourself a god in my place." "No." "Of course you would." He choked on a laugh. "And will. You will be the Slave-God, come to free the slaves and make slaves of the masters. Your dominion will be vaster even than mine." "Feeble insults. The people are impatient. I will now take your head." She raised her longknife. "And then?" "I will go into the wilderness until the great gods bid me go down into death." She bent over him, cast his helmet aside, and grasped his braids. "What if--" The dying god raised a shaking hand. "What if I give you my power? You could build grand cities for your people. Forge weapons to protect them. Retrieve the dying from the very edge of death." He wheezed, red spittle bubbling on his lips. "All but yourself." He began to sob. "Take my power, it is yours! Just spare my life, I beg you!" There was pity in her eyes. "Not for the power of a thousand gods would I turn from my path." She raised her blade for the last time. "Then you have passed the test," the God-King said. "End of simulation." The God-King flickered and was gone. In his place beneath her lay a spindly frame of metal in the rough shape of a man. She swung her longknife, but it too flickered and was gone. And then the whole throne room flickered and all was nothingness, bare white floor and whiteness like a dome of ivory. She stood and peered into that solid white. "What is this place?" "It is where you have always been," answered a calm voice behind her. She spun. The spindly metal man stood near, its delicate fingers laced in front of it, the smooth head perforated by two spots of light like gleaming sapphires. "What trick is this?" Unwelcome fear stirred in her. She kindled anger to burn it away. "What illusion do you trap me in, God-King?" "I'm afraid the God-King was the illusion. And his kingdom. And the forests of your tribe. Everything but you." Its voice was gentle, almost sad. "You think me ensorcelled by these shadows. I know it is mere trickery." "It is science--though that must be, to you, a kind of magic." "You give yourself away, metal man. Only the God-King knows the ways of magic. The God-King, and the gentle gods." "I represent neither. I represent those who made you. Who made me, too, as it happens." "And who was that if not the gods?" "Men and women." "Perhaps they also are illusions, as you say the God-King is." "I'm afraid not. My masters are perfectly ordinary scientists. Men and women of flesh and blood." "The God-King too is flesh and blood. I just now spilled it." "It's true they made the hologram--the vision you call God-King--in the likeness of a man. There was a purpose for that, just as for a purpose they made me. And you." "And for what purpose do you say that is?" "To do again exactly as you've done here in this simulator where you've lived since infancy." "To serve the gentle gods?" "To serve mankind. To kill a tyrant with an evil heart and the powers of a god. To live the life your years have been a play at living." "Fortunately I am no fool. I know truth from mere seeming. I have felt truth in my heart, and with my body." "In the arms of one you loved?" the metal man said in the voice of her husband, dead two years. Her blood turned to ice. "Were this not a lie, it would prove your own gods crueler than the God-King." "Do you not recall," the metal man continued in the dead man's voice, "the first night in our marriage hut? How with your knife you nicked my inner thigh and whispered, this scar will be mine alone, not for any other eyes?" She felt empty. There was only a vague sickness at her stomach, a white-hot rage inside that burned silent and distant as a star. At length the metal man spoke in its own voice. "Perhaps it would help you to know why--why the illusions, why you were made." She looked through the metal man, her eyes unfocused. The metal man waited as if for response, but receiving none went on. "Out among the stars, there is a world almost exactly like your simulation. It is the object of my masters' study. A tyrant rules there, a being from another world. A contaminant that must be removed. "You are one of many specimens engineered to lead the people--as though one of them--in revolution. Each of you has faced this same lifelong simulation. Some still face it as I speak. You are the first to succeed." All was silent for a time. The metal man raised a wiry hand. "If you would--." "I will be the weapon," she said, her eyes snapping into focus, dark and sharp. The metal man gestured to one side, where a door had appeared from nothing. "Then you may proceed. Go and meet my masters." She shook her head. "In my tribe, it is the servant's place to lead, and the guest's place to follow." "So it is." The metal man turned and treaded toward the portal. She moved to follow. "I will be the weapon," she said to the back of the metal man, "of the greater gods. And you will be mine." She leapt on its back and it crashed to the floor beneath her. With one twist of her hands, the head and rigid spine ripped free of the spindly frame in one piece, the sapphire eyes extinguished. The God-King had compelled his slaves to kill, had deranged their minds with sorcery. And yet the God-King had been but a shadow of these scientists, these dark magician-gods who had made him, who would make her, too, their slave, broken and ensorcelled to their will, a beast on a tether. She was no beast, nor a slave to be broken. She was a weapon. A tool. She stood and hefted the head on its rod. The weight was good. She swept it through the air with one hand, then the other. The balance was fair enough. It would make a fine club of war. A fine tool. Her gods were the older, gentler gods. They took no slaves, tethered no beasts. They worked through prophecies, songs, poems chanted around the cook fire. All they needed was a weapon, and anything can be a weapon--a rock, a bone, the body of a metal man. A woman, body and soul. A weapon need not be coerced. Wherever it is moved, that is where it is. Everything in its proper place. That is its nature. She had followed the path of the prophecies, lived the songs, become the very rhythm of the poems for this purpose. She would be the weapon of the greater gods, who would not suffer gods of science-magic with their mind-ensnaring shadows, their puppets shaped like men. She stood, her club of war in hand, and, stepping through the door, smiled to think how lucky was her station. She had thought to kill but one false god before she went down into death. How lucky was this tool to find such wealth of purpose.



Sam knew Elena wanted him to leave his dead wife. He peered up at Elena's eyes. Her squint of disapproval egging him on, he opened the door to the Room. The bright light scorched his eyes like when he was little and stared at the sun and Mom said it'd blind him. But eventually, after the door closed behind Sam with a metallic click, his sight adjusted. Naomi faded in the middle of the room. Her back faced Sam; he wanted to creep up behind her and scare her. But as soon as he took a step, the sensors relayed the information to Naomi. Sam blinked and there she was, facing him, smiling the smile that'd melted his heart from the moment he'd last seen her alive, eight years before. "Hello, Samuel. It's been a long time." The last time he'd come to see Naomi was the night he'd met Elena. He'd felt so miserable and so guilty and so ashamed. And he hadn't come back once in six years. "How are you?" She pinched her wrist with her thumb, fore, and middle fingers. "Why, still no pulse." She flashed another smile at Sam. The rendering was perfect. Sam's eyes filled with tears when the picture of Naomi lying on her deathbed, her face white as a drape, jumped to the front of his mind. "I miss you," Sam said. Elena had promised not to watch the video feed from outside the Room, but for an instant Sam didn't care if she did. "I know. I miss you too." Sam lurched forward. He wanted to hold Naomi again. One more time. One last time before he had to forever let her go. His arms blurred through Naomi's shoulders and his momentum made him tumble forward. He caught himself on the immaculate, glowing walls of the Room. When he swung back with a sigh, Naomi flickered back in the center of the Room. "Samuel. Oh, Samuel." Her brow was furrowed and a small smile danced on her lips. She'd had the same expression when he'd proposed to her, but it'd been drawn with lines of happiness then. Now it was thick, dark smudges of pity and sorrow. "It's unfair." "What is?" "This. You dead. Me alive. This machine--the Room shouldn't exist." Sam waved his arms between Naomi and his torso and around them at the walls of light. "You'd rather I was just� gone?" "This hurts too much." "I know. I hurt too." Sam stopped his slow march towards Naomi. "I must tell you something." "I know." She winced. "I love you." She frowned and narrowed her eyes further. "I love you too, Sammy. Is that what you must tell me?" Sam shook his head. "Remember how we swore that the first to die would wait for the other in the Room?" Naomi's smile that encouraged him to speak twitched, froze, and retracted. "I do." Sam paused and held his breath. "I met someone." He looked away. "I'm sorry. I couldn't wait." Naomi smiled as if relieved and heartbroken. "I know." Sam stared at her, unable to close his hanging mouth. "How?" "The Room is connected. With the right mentor, you can visit any place with an Internet connection. I climbed Mt. Everest, I visited the moon, Mars, Saturn..." she let her sentence trail off into silence while Sam digested the news. "And I checked on you." "You've spied on me?" She crossed her arms on her chest. "Yes, Sammy. I missed you. I was alone. I only accepted to be uploaded to stay with you, to wait with and for you, but you left me alone for six years. I needed to know." Sam sighed. "I'm sorry." "I'm not. Elena is good for you. She's crazy about you." "I like her, but I still love you." "And she knows. And that's okay. We can never stop loving each other. But you deserve someone to love you with her body as well as her heart." Sam tightened his lips together until they went numb. "I don't care about sex." "Sammy, you love sex. But that's not all I'm talking about. Little touches, Samuel. Holding your hand, caressing your hair, kissing your cheeks, your lips." "You act like you don't care." Naomi laughed for a while and the laugh backslapped memories into Sam's mind. Naomi sitting on the front row at his one-man show. Naomi, later, backstage. Naomi after their first time, awkward, clumsy, delicious. Naomi, Naomi, Naomi. "I care. Trust me. I felt betrayed. But I realized how silly and selfish it was of me to expect abstinence from you. It's not right." "But you're all alone--over there." "I'm not alone. Remember Gina? She's here. Her wife uploaded her a few years ago. Others too. I'll be fine." "Really?" "Really." Sam inched his way to the door, making sure to walk around Naomi's rendering. He wrapped his hand around the steel-cold doorknob. Above the door, a small monitor bled images of a waiting Elena. Yes, the Room was unfair. Unfair to Sam and to Elena and to Naomi. Naomi. It'd always been and would always be Naomi. Sam thrust his fist into the monitor and circled his hand around a sharp piece of glass. The Room's sensors picked up on his elevated heartbeat and Sam smiled at the red letters that popped up everywhere around him, begging him not to do anything rash, assuring him that help was on the way. He felt for his carotid artery with his left hand and drove the jagged-edged glass with his right. When he woke after the upload, faces wobbled above his head. The faces sharpened as if a lens had rotated and focused. Naomi. "Hey," she said. Tears streamed down her cheeks. "What's wrong?" Three other faces, four and younger, a mixture of Naomi and a stranger, burst into a cacophonous laughter. "I'm sorry, Sammy," Naomi said and her voice broke into a shrieking sob. "I couldn't wait either."



Sarah sticks the needle in her arm and falls backwards, feeling the pain of the wound and the soft sheets of her bed. It doesn't hit her immediately. Several minutes pass as the nanites travel through her bloodstream and latch onto her brain. To Sarah, those minutes last an eternity. Each time she injects, the wait feels longer than the time before. She craves for the connection to be initiated, to be alive with the world again. The nanites will attach to the neurons in her brain and enable a wireless data connection. The interpreter software she installed months earlier render the webpages as something that can be interacted with by thought alone. When her connection goes live this time, the banging on her bedroom door starts. A hundred webpages appear in her mind, her session from last time restored--Twitter feeds, Facebook statuses, and a thousand Instagram photos flood into view. She consumes them hungrily as the banging on the door grows louder. "This is telepathy," she whispers as the thoughts of thousands fill her mind. Those that also injected update their statuses with their thoughts, and Sarah knows them as they know her own. Injecting is illegal, but that's rarely enforced. Sarah thinks the illegality of it pointless. It is a precautionary measure since the long-term effects are unknown. There have been a few cases of the injected wandering outside under the influence and causing accidents. Sarah knows better. She locks herself in her room where she lies in bed, enjoying her connection to the world. Tricia's voice now accompanies the banging. She yells something, but it's too difficult for Sarah to make sense of it. The interpretation of data consumes too much of Sarah's mind. She can stop and listen, but she needs to take advantage of her time. The injection lasts only a few hours. After that, the nanites will deteriorate. Someday, it will last forever, Sarah thinks between page loads. Then she will inject for the last time. She imagines a world of telepaths. Beneath Tricia's voice, a baby cries. The sound reminds Sarah that she needed to upload photos of Taylor. His third birthday party was last weekend, and Sarah has pictures of it on her phone. She connects to the phone and uploads the pictures to her accounts. A tsunami of likes and compliments rush over her. Her body convulses, and her head swims. She's never had so many people connected to her at once. She smiles and tears of joy leak from her eyes. "You're supposed to watch Taylor tonight. I have to go to work," Tricia says. Sarah hears this, but finds little meaning it. "I can't be late again." Sarah tags Tricia in the photos. Someone comments that they are such a cute couple. What a beautiful baby they have. Three people like that comment. Outside the bedroom, Tricia stops banging. Sarah hears Tricia's footsteps moving away from the door. "I'm taking Taylor with me," Tricia says. Sarah will try to remember Tricia's words for later, after the nanites die. For now, she wants to stay connected to her friends, to the world. She updates her status to say she is so lucky to have such wonderful friends and family.





She manifests about three feet away from him, a moment of static and then a perfectly formed human being. She is a blend of his favorite aunt, his primary school teacher, and the barista in his local coffee bar. She is pretty, in a nonsexual kind of way. She is as bland and nonthreatening as the plain white room they are standing in, and he knows instinctively this whole staging point is designed to put him at his ease. "Hi Jack, I'm Avi," she says with a wide smile. He looks her up and down. "Weird. I thought my therapist was a fifty-year-old guy called Marcus." She laughs. It sounds genuine. "Well yes, Marcus is of course monitoring our conversation, but the program thought that I would be a less threatening presence during the simulation." "Let me guess; the guys who wrote the program don't have any combat experience." Her eyes flick up and to the right for a moment. "None of the programmers have served on the front line," she confirms. "Marcus would like to know why you feel this is relevant." "Because you're just as likely to be a combatant as a six-foot tattooed bloke named Smasher," he replies, shaking his head. "There's no such thing as a nonthreatening person. Even kids have been trained to kill for centuries. Everyone is a potential threat." Avi's eyes flick up again. "Would it help if I wasn't human?" Jack sighs. "You aren't human. Isn't that the entire point of this?" "Marcus wants to remind you that this is entirely voluntary. Your vitals are displaying a degree of agitation and discomfort that could be detrimental to your overall health. We can terminate the program now if you wish, or reload it with different parameters." "No it's fine, it's just that people like you don't understand. Civilians, I mean." Avi smiles, spreading her hands wide. "Of course we don't, but that's why I am here. We want to learn what it's like from your perspective, so we can better help veterans assimilate back into society post-combat." He sighs. "We better get started then." Avi stretches out her hand to him. He hesitates before taking it. She feels solid. Real. Her smile is engaging and gentle. "This is possibly the most screwed up date I've ever been on," he mutters. "Only possibly?" That makes him smile. "You never met my ex. Come on, let's get this over with." He pushes open a door and steps into a large, open-plan office high up in a skyscraper. Debris, broken glass, and abandoned computer equipment litters the floor, while a cold breeze blows in from the broken windows. Avi looks about her. "This is how you remember things?" He walks past a long row of white cubicles, trying not to look at the burnt corpses inside. "No." "Please explain, Jack. We are supposed to be revisiting your trauma." "We are," he says as he continues to walk. He hears her picking up her pace to catch up with him. "I'm afraid that I don't understand you." "Whenever I close my eyes, this is what I see. Whenever Marcus asks me about my time in service, this is what I think about." He walks to the large corner office at the end of the floor. There is a gaping hole where the windows once stood, and paperwork dances in the wind like giant flakes of snow. He does not enter the room. "Where is this?" "The result of my first command. I called in a localized drone strike to knock out an insurgent leader." "What went wrong?" He feels his face twist. "Everything. Intel was bad for a start; the woman we were after was at a meeting six blocks away when we hit. Then something went wrong on impact; maybe they'd rigged the place up with explosives, or maybe it was faulty wiring. God knows. Either way, it blew out this entire floor and killed fifty two people." Avi places a hand on his shoulder. "If they were enemy combatants-" Jack barks out a laugh. "Look around you! These people weren't soldiers; it's just an office block. They were just normal people going about their normal day and I killed them all. The twenty-year-old intern, the woman three days from retirement, the guy who had just become a father. All dead because I screwed up." There is a brief silence. Jack looks down at his feet to stare at the photograph he already knows will be there. "How do you know all this?" asks Avi. "It was all over the internet within hours of the strike. How could I not know?" Avi bends down to pick up the photograph. She studies the face of the smiling boy for a few moments. "The footage that you saw was filmed by enemy insurgents. The government has classed it as propaganda." Jack snorts, but says nothing. "Is this what you always see?" "No, sometimes it's worse." He takes her hand and walks towards a door at the far side of the room. He takes a deep breath and pushes it open. Everything swings to the right, and they emerge in the midst of a busy triage tent. Medics run from gurney to gurney in a pattern that must make sense to them, but looks chaotic to an outsider. The air reverberates with distant gunfire and shell explosions. The edges of the tent blow inwards as helicopters bring in more casualties from the front line. There are groans, sobs, screams, and the shouting of medics as they try to make themselves heard over the injured and dying. "Where is this?" asks Avi. "I can find no record of this place in the archives." "It's classified," says Jack, unable to resist smirking. "Why did we come here?" Jack nods over to the furthest table, where medics are frantically trying to stop blood gushing from the remains of a soldier's lower leg. "Because I did this." Avi studies the scene before her. "These people are wearing our uniforms. We appear to be in a semi-urban area somewhere in Western Europe, but you were never stationed here during active service." "Did Marcus even upload my therapy notes to your database?" "No. The point of this simulation is for you to guide it, not me. Please explain what we are witnessing here." Jack stares at the young soldier laid out on the nearest gurney. Her eyes are open, her chest still. "This is the other place I go to in my nightmares. This is where every death that resulted from my mistakes, my inadequacies, comes to haunt me." He points at the young woman before him. "This is Trooper Tam. She died when a supply convoy was attacked. I could see it all happening from the satellite cam, but their radio was down and I couldn't tell them about the ambush. Twenty-seven soldiers died that day, and their names are engraved on my heart." He walks deeper into the triage tent, the medics moving around him as though he isn't there. Jack stops before a weeping man. His legs are gone, and the bandages are sticky with blood. "Corporal Gardner. I didn't spot the heat signature from the bomb in time to prevent him getting hurt. He never adjusted to life outside the military and wound up a homeless addict. He committed suicide three years ago." Avi tilts her head to the side, her eyes scanning the faces of the wounded. "This space represents all the soldiers whose death you feel responsible for." Jack nods and takes her hand. "Yes, but it gets worse." They leave the tent, pushing open the flap and stepping into the ruins of an abandoned cathedral. Thousands of people stand before them in row upon row of silent accusation. They are a mixture of soldier and civilian, ally and enemy. Some bear the wounds of combat, others clutch photographs or weapons. The air stinks of hatred and anger. "Where are we?" "The place where my sins come back to haunt me." Mumbles begin to emanate from the crowd. They draw together into a close formation, every one of them staring directly at Jack. "Marcus wants to end the simulation," says Avi. "He thinks he has a better idea of what you are battling with." Jack raises his eyebrows in mock surprise. "He does? And how many people has he killed?" The mumbles are growing into shouts. People hold up their photographs and shout out names and threats. "It is time to leave, Jack. Marcus says you are resisting the discharge protocol. We must withdraw from the simulation before permanent damage is done to your brain." "And what the fuck does the good doctor know about damage? Look at them, Avi. Look at all the people whose lives I have touched. Can you blame them for wanting to thank me for my work?" The crowd moves closer, then rocks and bottles are being thrown at him. Avi places a hand on his chest and begins to push him away from the mob, using her body as a shield. "These people are not real, Jack. They are just your subconscious trying to make sense of your time in the forces. You did nothing wrong, but you are suffering the psychological effects of combat. We need to leave the simulation now. Please, stop resisting the discharge." Jack smiles, but his heart is pounding out a violent rhythm. "Marcus wants to know what it feels like, doesn't he? He wants to know why some of us go crazy?" Avi shakes her head. She winces as a bottle impacts her shoulder, but otherwise ignores both it and the increasingly hostile crowd. "Marcus only wants to find a better way to understand your trauma. Get out of here, Jack, before any more damage is done to your mind. Please." There is a note of panic in her voice that he guesses is truly coming from Marcus. "This can't hurt any more than it does in my nightmares," he says, spreading out his arms. The mob surges forward, screaming at him and hurling missiles as they run. "Jack!" shouts Avi, and then the mob is upon them.




Maddy's working a half-day even though it's Friday. She gives me a smooch and looks sideways at the cameras in the kitchen. "They're off!" I tell her, rolling my eyes a bit. She grins at me and leaves. She's in a good mood; we made bank last night. She doesn't mind cameras in the bedroom, and we play it up a little. Why not? We look good; we're good at it. Who cares? But for her cameras in the kitchen and the living room are different, so they usually stay off. It's too bad; Danny's three, Caroline's thirteen. And we have a cute little spaniel, too. Prime demographics, active and charming. Lots of market. I view the mail while the kids eat breakfast. A note from my Mom in Texas, starting her fifth marriage at 92. Typical. Old, horny, smart, rich, sentimental. Sleeps one hour a night. Investments across the world, manages them herself. Spends hours downstreaming vidya, watching kids and animals and nature shows and sex. No sense of boundaries--her BuyShare file is totally public. Thanks Mom, good to know what you think of the latest VibroSeat, that's great. And she's getting healthier. Hell, she may never die. None of us may ever die of natural causes again. So they retire and pile up, more of them every day, investing money, controlling more and more of the economy, and gobbling up entertainment. We're the entertainment. I make jam sandwiches and dump a bag of Smart Bricks out on the living room floor. Caroline looks death at me. Very strong sense of order in a thirteen year old, she's easily exasperated by parental ploys like chase-the-bricks. Danny is not. He hoots in delight and teeters off after them, waving his jam sandwich in the air, chubby legs running unsteadily. Without thinking, I look up at the cameras on the wall. I could upstream for an hour and make bank. Danny's right in the fat part of the demographic; limited speech, high movement but also high error rate, lots of pratfalls and cute mis-speech. I'd probably have ten recutters buying the upstream in no time. Maddy would never even have to know. Crap. I get up and stalk into the kitchen for more coffee, mad at myself. She's right! She's absolutely right. Look at me. They're my kids, and I can't even enjoy a day with them. Right away I think about how to sell it, how to sell cute clips to hordes of dried up immortal ageless old... Crap. The cameras. Always the cameras. In the bedroom, in the kitchen, everywhere. Sucking down our whole lives. Chopped up by recutters and software into endless streams, forwarded back and forth from retirement villas in Cuba to walled apartment compounds in SF and LA, tagged with squeals and coos and "Look At This!!!!" comments by the unsleeping, ever growing, ever wealthier, ever older, voracious and undying maw. I walk back into the living room. Danny is on his back, his face smeared with jam, dissolving into laughter as the dog carefully licks him clean. Something inside me relaxes a tiny bit. God damn it, he really is charming. I could vidya this for Maddy. Just for us, no upstream, a little home movie like people used to do. I look up at the camera bank, but they're already on. The lights are peaking, there must be fifty recutters all buying the stream. I look at the sofa; Caroline's beaming at me. I didn't know she could reach the switches. I sit down next to her. Danny gets up and toddles over to us, still laughing. Caroline pulls her sandwich apart, sticks her tongue out at him, and smears more jam onto his face. He turns, runs and trips over the dog, and explodes into more giggles. "Look at those NUMBERS!" Her eyes are shining. "Daddy, we're making BANK." I forgot to sugar my coffee. I walk back into the kitchen, but behind me I can hear her telling me how cute he is, how much we're making, that we should upstream everything all the time, that if we do she can go to camp next summer, right? Right Daddy? Right? "Hush," I tell her as I walk back in. "You'll mess up the audio. They want to hear him laughing." We sit quietly on the sofa as the cameras track him rolling on the floor with the dog. He's squealing and giggling, and we watch the numbers climb. Maddy will be home in two hours. Until then, we're making BANK.




Every morning Mom says, "Today is the day I get my new body." And I lie and tell her, "No, Mom, that's tomorrow." Then she happily squeals like a rusted nail yanked out of scrap metal. "I'm so excited! I can't wait to wear a dress again!" I don't understand Mom's body perseveration, a degradation artifact as her engram matrix unravels the specialists call it. The UpLink specialist who preserved Mom's engrams and uploaded them to the house says there is nothing they can do. Terminal system degradation occurs in less than 0.21% of all UpLinks. Would a hardware upgrade do anything? No. What about a new interface? No. Perhaps an enrichment program, a way to enhance her love of gardening or community theater? No. More frequent interface with other UpLinks? No. "I'm sorry," they say, and I wonder if it would hurt less if they lied. Mom fades a little more every day. Her voice modulation slips. Her once proper diction is slurred. She takes longer to fulfill a request, never an order, always a request made with a sincere "Please" and accepted with a gentle "Thank you." We kept in touch after graduate school. Daily calls became weekly, became sporadic, became a single line text years later: "The biopsy result are in." I made it to as many appointments as I could. When the doctor brought up the possibility of an UpLink, Mom accepted without hesitation, cocooning herself in amber. I wasn't as certain, but supported her decision and agreed to provide a secure network. If I could turn back time, I would warn past me not to get involved, to run while she had the chance. This morning Mom made me coffee in my favorite mug, the one with bubblegum pink elephants tiptoeing through a field of bright yellow tulips. "Just the way you like it," she says. She forgot to patch the coffee grinder into the automated brew. I set the mug of steaming water in the sink. "Thanks, Mom. I'm running late, so I'll get something on the way." The lights in the kitchen falter. The red self-clean light flashes on the face of the automated brew. "Oh. Well, all right. Have a good day, dear." Her audio slips, warbles, resets. And she says, "Today is the day I get my new body." Mom is dying. Again. It is somehow worse this time because she doesn't know. Maybe it's only worse for me. The specialist asks how I wish to proceed. She will eventually need to be removed from the house network. To do anything else would be cruel and inhumane. Inhuman. Unhuman. I can't do it. I can't. How dare they ask me to kill my own mother? Gently, so gently the words leave me bleeding on the floor, "Your mother died four years ago. This is to preserve her dignity." Why won't they lie to me? Every night Mom runs me a hot shower and dispenses medications I have not trusted her to manage for months. I keep my own pill box in the bottom drawer of my nightstand. Tonight she says, "I looked at dresses today. There are so many, I can't make up my mind! Will you help me decide which one I should wear first?" "Sure, Mom." She turns up the bathroom lights. "What's wrong? Your eyes. Are you okay?" The last word flutters, skips: "o-o-O-o-k-kay?" I wipe my eyes on the edge of my damp towel. "I'm fine, Mom. Allergies." She clucks in sympathy and says, "I'll add an antihistamine to the grocery Zimbabwe." Language loss. She took pride in her vocabulary. Another piece of my mother gone forever. That night I 0.21% allergy myself to sleep. The specialist offers the termination code. I can speak it out loud in the house, enter it manually. "Or we can manage everything for you." A digital noose around my neck. Mom died before I made it to the hospital, a corn husk doll of a woman, wrinkled and pale. I never had the opportunity to tell her I loved her, or how proud I was of her, or say good-bye. I accept the code, to do anything else would be inhumane. Unhuman. "Will it... hurt?" "Pain is a physiological phenomenon. As she continues to degrade, she will become more unreliable and could prove a hazard. This disables her matrix and removes her from the house network." Mom died four years ago. I think of coffee and showers, medications and Mom's report on the latest theater practice. "I'll take care of it, thank you." Mom makes me coffee in my favorite mug. She says, "Today is the day I get my new body." The code teeters on the tip of my tongue. I weigh it against how happy she is to be a part of my life if only for a little longer. I take a sip of steaming water by the kitchen sink and say, "No, Mom, that's tomorrow, but I can help you choose a dress tonight when I get home."






Sure, I'll state my name for the record. It's Maggie Rodgers, with a D. Like "and Hammerstein," not like "Mister." Where should I start? All the way at the beginning? So, on paper the project was called the Supersimulation, but privately, we called it "The Nine Bajillion Names of God." Hard to get research funding under the auspices of an inside joke. But we did get funding, from twenty-seven countries and four independent research organizations and a couple dozen billionaires who thought this flavor of good P.R. was more interesting than, I don't know, ending world hunger or curing tuberculosis or something like that. No one's ever built a supercomputer this powerful; maybe no one ever will again, I don't know. Takes a lot money to keep it running, sure, but also? A lot of cat-herding to keep MIT, South Korea, the owner of the London Lions all at the same table. No, I didn't have anything to do with it. You can thank our marketing folks for that one. The end result, of course, is the most detailed, most accurate simulation of the universe that's ever been devised, and yes, that one I will take some of the credit for. Not all, of course. That was a team effort: feeding in the data, the fundamental laws of the universe. That's were the inside joke came in, see, those were the names of God. You get it? e=mc^2, there's one name; the ideal gas law, there's another, and so on. And then layers upon layers of refining the output, bending the world we'd made toward the world we lived in. Some of that was automated, sure, but you'd be surprised just how much hands-on time it takes to create the whole damn universe from scratch. And of course that's what we were doing, even if it we didn't realize it at first. That would have been a hell of a thing to write into a grant application, wouldn't it? Wasn't till about two years in that we started to notice what was happening--what was really happening. If you make a simulation of the universe that's good enough, powerful enough... At some point it's not so much a simulation anymore. It's just plain old Universe, Jr. All right, yes, the next part, that's the one I can't take full credit for so much as full blame. I took lead on Input, after all, you can check the digital signatures. The credentials for those later entries are all mine. When did I start? I think it must have been just after the third round of the Water Riots. When the south side had no power but up here, in our nice cozy campus in the suburbs, we were running bright and warm. I thought I could make just some little edits. Fine-tuning, right? Maybe no one would even notice, or that's what I convinced myself. A little bit of bias toward sentience. A tweak toward stability. From there it wasn't a big jump to some of the really important stuff. Plugging kindness, fairness, diversity, and beauty in right alongside the laws of gravity. "Be good to one another, damn it," baked right into the crust of the universe, so that mercy and grace are ever-increasing arrows right alongside entropy. Do you really mean to tell me if you had the chance to take a chisel to the cold stony face of the world as you know it, you'd just turn your back and walk away? I know that this isn't what this hearing is for, but we've all heard that the investors are talking about pulling the plug. That the money poured in isn't worth it now that the data coming out isn't congruent to our universe anymore. The money! Jesus Christ. Have you thought about what if we could ask, if we could talk to the beings in there? Have you thought about what they could tell us? I sure have. And as for why we're all really here today, well. If the board wants to fire me, sue for damages to the project, I'm sure you'll do what you think is right. That's what I did, after all. I can live with the rest, because God has a bajillion and one names now, all right? And the last one is Justice, and I'm proud to say I scribbled it in there myself.



Nathaniel remembers this. The leather wrapped around the steering wheel stays cool beneath his grip. His fingers are clenched tight and his hands are losing feeling. Now they are as numb as the rest of him. He knows every dip and crack in the hard-packed dirt of the road. He knows which tree branch will strike the roof of the truck. He knows he will kill a man. Nathaniel doesn't try to swerve when the hunched figure steps out in front of him. He remembers this. He doesn't flinch when the body flies up and over, hitting the windshield and leaving jagged cracks that disfigure his vision. The sound of the body rolling off the hood is like an echo and his feet leave the pedals as the truck rolls to a stop. Nathaniel swipes at his face with the back of his hand and opens the door and leaves the truck because he always does. He walks back along the road and steps into a pool of blood. The man is lying on his back in the weeds and dirt. His eyes are wide and foam leaks from his gaping mouth. His shirt is white and red stripes. His slacks are brown and muddy and torn at the knee. He is bent at an unnatural angle. Nathaniel does not bend down. He does not check to see if the man is dead because he always is. He turns his head and catches the eye of one of the players leaning into the viewing port. She shifts back with an annoyed huff. She raises her hand and beckons to one of the techs who stand in the shadows. They approach and lean in to whisper. She nods at the quiet words and flicks her wrist in agreement. The game is reset. He remembers this.




Styler leaned towards the clock and pinched something from the air. I felt the room move. Everything move. She held it out to me and I dropped the paper plane I'd spent all afternoon folding and refolding and never getting right. "A second," she said, pushing my grasping hands away and plucking the handkerchief from the top pocket of my jacket. Pinstriped, my suit a perfect miniaturized copy of my father's. Styler wrapped the second in it, made me put it in the inside pocket, the one that carries things closest to your heart. Usually a man's wallet. Figures. "Don't waste it. And for goodness sake, if you feel a sneeze coming on--use your sleeve." It would be wrong to say I forgot about that second, right to say I didn't give it more than a glancing thought every now and again. What value a second when life ate up minutes, galloped through hours, gorged on days and.... "What do you want to do with this?" Helen asked, holding up the tiny suit. "Did you used to do ventriloquism?" "It was mine," I said and saw her face was troubled, yet fascinated. The suit was the only thing in the room cut in my father's image. I hadn't gone out of my way to disappoint him--like all things financial were his natural gift, mine was falling way below people's expectations. Helen pulled a paper plane from the pocket. Badly made, a waste of the time I'd spent trying to do it. "There's something in the inside pocket. It's a handkerchief. Urgh, there's something in it." She held the handkerchief up by its collected corners and I reached forward and grabbed it before it could unfold whereupon what sprinkled out would not be dried snot, but the second that Styler had given me. "The suit?" she reminded me, after I'd spent a long time staring at the handkerchief. "Throw it out," I murmured, not looking at her or the suit. Helen huffed and left to file it in the charity or the shredding pile, with the rest of my father's belongings. Styler hadn't been there at the funeral. Or, she might have been. There were many there to pay respects to my father. I stood at the front, Helen by my side, my relatives hanging back in other rows in order to be noticed but not appear too keen to find out what my father had left them. Here to "pay" their respects, I thought, and wondered if the expression had once had a financial element to it. My father would have approved of that. "A second?" Helen asked me during the drive back from my father's house. "Your nanny left you a second? How are you going to spend that?" And there was that thought again. That we "paid" our respects, "spent" our time.... "Saved" our sinking men, I thought, contriving in order to complete the list. "She wasn't the nanny. She was the cook. I didn't have a nanny--I was supposed to keep myself busy." Employed. My father had always used the word "employed." Usually preceded by "gainfully." "Earn" his respect, I quickly added to the list. Oh, god.... Helen was driving and so only noticed the tears when they had finished. "So?" she said gently. "You know what you want to do with it?" "Let it go," I said. She nodded, realizing I was referring to more than just the moment wrapped in the handkerchief. "He never has time for me! Not even a single second!" The complaint of any child, never mind if it had been true in my case. And Styler, not one to play games, not possessed of an enormous imagination--reflected in the solid, chunky meals she produced from my father's kitchen--reaching over to the clock and plucking a second to give to me. "Not here," I told Helen. "Back at his house." She bit her impatience, performed a U-turn, drove us back there. Helen stayed in the car, sensing this was a moment that her presence would either break or force into ridicule. I went up to my father's office, wanting to hand back the second so I wasn't left owing my father even that. The handkerchief had gone stale in that tiny jacket pocket but the second had preserved its color. I opened it, let the second be sucked back into that past time. And as the door to that past moment opened, I saw my father, sitting at his desk. The clock before him showed the time was the right one, the calendar on the wall the right day. He was always working, always surrounded by paper, but in that second the floor and his desk were littered with balled-up sheets. The latest attempt was before him, half-completed and already on the way to something that would never fly straight, never take to the air, never impress. I saw the anguish on his face as he tried, though. The second ended, but I had already lost the scene to my tears.





You are there again. Near the rock. In the blackness; in the void. I know that it is you, even though I cannot see that it is you. I know it is not me. I am not there. Not there, where you are. You slump against the rock. It is a small, unnaturally round, boulder. It supports your back as you recline against it, uncomfortably. You roll to your left, twisting, and push off the rock, into a standing position. You lift one foot, place it on the rock, for reference as much as for support. Your faded trousers, cut off below the knees, show a gap of hairy calves above sandaled feet--or they would if it were less dark. You still wear your glasses, useless though they are in this continual night. You have no shirt; you are comfortable enough and you are easier for me to monitor without it. You step up, onto the rock. With this exertion I can sense that you are in good shape, your muscles are lean and your joints smooth even though you have begun the second half of your natural lifespan. You step carefully off the rock and amble forward into the dark. You haven't quit--not just yet. Finding the rock again was a blow to your spirit; that was obvious. Not a blow at first--it was a shape in an otherwise utter and empty blackness. It was a relief to you--you'd found something in the void; that the something was an object that you had already explored was eventually a disappointment; but first came the hope of discovery, then a suspicion of familiarity and, impressively, a thorough exploration and determination that it was, in fact, the very same rock in the middle of your "nowhere." Your nowhere consists of this artificial rock and a bottom: a floor that is as smooth as polished steel and as hard and unmarkable as titanium, with no perceptible texture. And there is air in your nowhere. No wind, no smell, but a heavy, humid, and very normal (tasting, feeling) air in this non-place. Everything here has a uniform temperature: just right. So you came back to the rock. You found it for the second time after the equivalent of four of your days. But you don't know that it has been four days. You are certain it is longer than four hours. You are less certain that it has not yet been four weeks. You were relieved to find the rock this second time. It is surrounded by the faintest of ambient light. Light with no discernible origin, light that does not illuminate anything for you, not even your hand, no matter how close to the rock you hold it. And from only a body length away the rock is lost in the darkness. You found that out four days ago, the hard way. You walked three steps away and then right back--to a different place. The spiral search you conducted was clever but fruitless. You almost despaired then, but it was too soon. You are uncertain how you arrived at the rock again; uncertain whether you were better off lost in emptiness. You wonder how you are not hungry, not thirsty. You don't know that the air you breathe in this no place is imperceptibly enriched with nutrients and catalytically condensing water vapor--enough to sustain you, barely; but you do recognize that you miss the act of eating, of drinking. Now, for the second time, you are leaving the comfort of the rock. You've been back at it for only a hundredth of a day, but it is already enough to have rebuilt your resolve. I find that interesting. I wonder: is this typical? For my own part, I clung to the rock upon rediscovery; when it was me who was there. There, where you are. In my own blankness. Mine was a void that you would sense as white noise. Darkness and silence are not visible to me. So your immersion is different materially, but it offends you similarly. Your pain brings back my pain; your frustration rekindles my frustration; though I knew my observers, and trusted them. Trusted them to the extent, at least, that trust persists across such a void. Still, that fading trust was a luxury that you do not enjoy. It allows me to empathize, my having been there; to gain better insight, to "hear" your actions and perceive your motivations. It helps me; it helps us--the "us", that is, that does not include you. I am glad it is you this time, glad that it is not me, now. I held fast to the rock, that second same rock, for a long time. The records show I held many times as long as you just did; and my memory tells me it was many times longer than that (or was it shorter?). I held, but you have started out again, willing yourself to challenge the void, to find an escape via one route or another. Perhaps you can break or dig through the floor? Glasses, you will find out quite soon, do not make a good drill, nor shovel, nor axe. In a day or so you will try to jump up to find a ceiling, or crossbeams, or something (there will only be more nothing). You will grope for a door, for a handle, for anything; but even the artificial rock will have then been removed. And you will search (crawling, stumbling, running, and crawling again) for an edge, even if it is only to fall off of. You will seek for an edge, but you will not reach one. Yes, you have set your mind to try, or to go mad in the attempt. I am afraid that the latter is inevitable. In fact, it is what I am waiting for. It is your way out; and when you reach it, you will be here, with me, where I am; and I will have taken a measure of you.




It's the chance of a lifetime. Or at least, that's what they tell her. She only knows that the cameras are rolling and the company has been planning this for months and she is, in actuality, nothing more than a glorified guinea pig. The first woman to experience simulated time travel created from pieces of her own memory. "Due to the simulator's design, we really have no idea what kind of experience you'll have," her boss explained to her several days earlier, ten minutes before the final press conference. "We loosely control the setting and structure of the environment, but as for dialog, interaction, character realism..." He leaned back in his chair, arms crossed casually behind his head. "That's where you come in." She imagined herself as the last point on his checklist, a tidy box to be filled in, imagined him thinking: See, it's done. Look what I accomplished. She nodded, but the words "character realism" left a bitter edge in her throat. It'll be me in there, she thought. My fourteen-year-old self. Even now she is surprised by how protective she feels of the girl she once was. But they can't hurt me, she reasons. Either of me. It's a simulator. Now, after years of research and agonizing hours of whiteboard scribbling and late nights, here they are in front of the downtown bookstore. She is dressed in a pencil skirt and navy blazer, her makeup applied heavily for the benefit of the cameras, every strand of hair in place. In her right hand she carries a thick red leather book. It's her old journal from eighth grade to senior year of college, from pink schoolgirl scribble to slender, hurriedly dashed-off cursive. A small microphone and camera are clipped to her blazer, hidden from sight. They will broadcast everything live. The buzzing crowd goes silent as she steps onto the green carpet and walks toward the glass doors. The cameras are trained on her. She reaches the door handle. She pulls it open. Ordinary, just like a thousand other doors. No electric shock or nauseating sensation like she had been anticipating. She goes in, a successful twenty-nine-year woman with a promising career in simulation design, on her way to have coffee with the young girl that she was fifteen years ago. 29 walks in, the well-used red journal tucked under her arm. She scans the rows of bookshelves for 14 and just barely catches sight of a curly brown head all the way in the back, between the fantasy and science fiction. Of course. 29 smiles, remembering how long she clung to her belief in fairies and dragons and wrinkles in time. She glances over her shoulder, forgetting for a moment that although she can still see the camera crew and her boss just outside the glass, his arms folded as he politely but firmly tells a disappointed customer that the store will be closed until four o' clock, none of them can see her. The thought brings with it a sudden gust of confidence as she turns back to the far-off girl immersed in books. Then she waves, not quite daring enough to call out, "Hi!" because it is, after all, a bookstore, and there's something about all those fresh, inky pages that demands only whispers. Finally, finally... 14 looks up, and they lock eyes, and for a brief moment 29 can tell that she doesn't recognize her, doesn't recognize this woman with her crisp, flat-ironed haircut and pressed blazer. She gazes back and thinks wistfully of her younger self's wild, flyaway hair that curls in wisps around a face currently torn between confusion and curiosity. Then 14's eyes light up and she's running across the store, waving wildly, bursting with excitement to meet herself at twenty-nine years old. The chance of a lifetime, 29 thinks again. After shy yet eager greetings, they sit down at a table with steaming lattes, and 29 opens up the red book to the first page. She can feel the camera underneath the collar of her blazer, still rolling, projecting 14's image across hundreds of televisions. The words--at least, the first few pages--are familiar to 14, but 29 can tell that she doesn't understand why her older self laughs so much as she flips through them. For several minutes that's all they do, just reread old journal entries from the end of eighth grade. No talking. 29 knows she should say something, engage 14 in conversation of some type. This is her job. It's not just research; it's reality TV. Nobody wants to watch two young women silently flipping through an old book. She decides, at least for now, that she doesn't care. Every now and then when they think the other won't notice, they study each other. 29 smiles at 14's unruly bird's nest hair and fleetingly pictures herself walking into the office in messy curls and baggy jeans. She blinks in surprise at 14's pink cheeks. Why did she hate that so much in high school anyway? As she turns a page to yet another entry, she finds herself grinning uncontrollably. Then she looks up. 14 stares back at her with an annoyed, rather fierce expression, and suddenly 29 remembers how much she used to hate inside jokes, and she knows without a doubt that 14 is thinking the exact same thing. "I know," she says out loud. "I do, too." She pauses, swallowing a giggle. When was the last time I felt the need to giggle? she wonders, half-embarrassed, half-giddy. "It's just... you were so dramatic about everything! I mean, I was. Us. We." 14 looks sweetly, innocently surprised. "I was? I mean, I am?" They both laugh. It's a good kind of laughter. The kind you have with your best friend when you know it's something only she will understand. "So," says 14, fingering the pages of the journal and studying the soft leather cover. "Um... I was wondering..." 29 knows she is dying to ask about the contents of the journal. About the years she hasn't lived yet. About the secrets in those pages. It feels quite surreal to know someone's thoughts before they've said them, even if the person across from her is... well, her. She takes a sip of her latte. "Ask away." 14 looks up, flushed and surprised. "Really?" She leans forward, pressing against the table. 29 can feel raw eagerness practically radiating off her skin. She notices a bit of spilled coffee on 14's sweater. There is something endearing about that small, damp spot. 29 briefly struggles to remind herself that this entire meeting is, in fact, a fabrication built from nothing more than scraps of her memories. At the same time, it doesn't seem to matter anymore. It's her life, her past, her guts spilled for all to see, and who cares if it's in the name of science or posterity or progress? Damn progress, she thinks. And just like that, she reaches under the collar of her blazer and switches off the camera and microphone. 14 touches the pages of the journal. She floods the tiny bookstore coffee shop with questions. Will I survive eighth grade? Will boys ever think I'm pretty? Will I write any novels? Will I be a famous author? Will falling in love ever make sense? Will I grow out of blushing at everything? And on and on. She asks questions until she has absolutely no words left. 29 leans back, overwhelmed and surprised at how much she has forgotten about what it was like to be that young. She takes a breath and laughs until tears well up in the corner of her eyes. "Well, I promise you'll make it to twenty-nine at least," she says. "And boys already think you're pretty, you're just worrying about it too much to notice. Falling in love is confusing no matter how old you are. Or maybe we're just stuck in the same boat. You will write a novel. In two years, as a matter of fact." She grins. She feels like a fortuneteller. "But of course you won't be satisfied with it, because after all, you are a writer." As the words leave her mouth they jab at her, prickly with longing and regret. She decides she can't bring herself to tell 14 that she dropped her dreams of being a freelance fantasy writer after college. She still has the second draft of that novel in a shoebox in her apartment. She hasn't looked at it in years. It takes them two hours to read the journal. They scoot their chairs side-by-side. 29 sits on the left, at the beginning, and 14 perches on her right, at the end. 29 has, of course, read it all before. She remembers writing every word. But to 14 it is almost entirely new. Her own story. 29 watches her out of the corner of her eye. 14 cannot stop staring, returning to the same pages over and over, amazed at this young woman who is like her and not like her. 29 imagines what 14 is thinking. She is thinking that she can't wrap her mind around the fact that 29 was her once, and that someday she will be 29. Most of all, she is astonished that at her core, 29 does not seem so different from 14. As they read, they giggle to each other and whisper the funny bits aloud, ignoring the occasional odd stares from other coffee-sipping patrons. Sometimes 29 winces as if she's bitten into a lemon or stepped on something sharp. And they both cry, reading each other's stories, because it's their story too. Neither wants to admit it, so for those parts they don't look at each other and pretend not to notice. They finish at the same time. They are suddenly shy, looking at the cold dregs of their lattes, seeing each other with brand new eyes. Because now they know all the secrets. The bitter, jealous things. The head-over-heels in love things. The ugly, hateful things. The isn't-life-a-confusing-mess-sometimes things. 29 remembers all over again, with such intensity that it makes her catch her breath, what it's like to be 14. She understands that this journal, this record of eight years of their life, is not a book of answers. It's a book of ponderings and wonderings and questions. It's an ordinary book about a fairly ordinary life. Four hundred and two pages that will never mean so much to anyone else, and it doesn't matter. It was written for her. For them. So that someday, after the very last page, 14 could look forward, and 29 could look back, and maybe, just maybe they'd figure those things out. How friends come and go, and it hurts, and you still do move on eventually. Why teenage girls can be as vicious as a frenzy of blood-crazy chickens. (29 has been both the attacked and the attacker, and she still doesn't understand it.) Why you fall in love with someone, or at least think you do, even though your better judgment sends up desperate warning signals and you plunge ahead anyway, hope against hope, because somehow it's worth the hurt, and then it's over. How hard it is to wait for things. How dreams lodge themselves in a lumpy ache at the back of your throat. How painful it is when friends finally see your ugly side. And why on earth it is that the best ones still love you anyway. How badly words can hurt, like stinging darts that leave you bleeding when you try to yank them out, and sometimes like rocks dropped on bare toes. And how, even though you've felt it, you still go out and shoot your own darts and drop your own rocks. Why it is that deep inside you'll probably never grow out of dragons and fairy-tales and rolled-down car windows and twirling in the grass and laughing so hard that you spit out whatever it was you were trying to drink. There are so many whys. An infinite number. 14 is full of them. 29 might have even more. I am fired, she thinks suddenly. I've cheated them of everything they worked for and left them with nothing but televisions full of static. When I walk through those glass doors again, that will be it. They will take away the camera and escort me to my car, and I will not come back to the office tomorrow morning. She knows she should feel something at this point. Maybe panic, regret, anger.... Maybe penitence. But she feels none of these things. Instead, she finds herself thinking of the dusty shoebox in her apartment closet and of a girl with bird's nest hair and light-touched eyes. A girl that was her once. It is almost four o' clock, at which point the simulator will automatically shut down. Neither of them wants to leave. They dawdle for a few minutes, cleaning up crumpled napkins and tossing away cups. 29 turns toward the glass door. Outside she glimpses her boss, red-faced, arguing with one of the camera crew. His collar looks uncomfortably tight. 29 says goodbye to 14. She keeps it brief, not knowing exactly how one would conclude a get-together with one's former self. 14 brushes her fingers across the journal one last time before 29 tucks it under her arm and walks toward the door. "Wait!" 14 blurts, too loudly, cheeks glowing pink. Her words come out in a tumbled rush. "Can I--can I keep it with me?" 29 stops, her hand on the door. "You're going to live it. That's better." She smiles at the girl's anxious hopefulness. "You don't need memories of your own future, silly." 14 looks so small, standing there just beyond the doorway. "Promise?" 29 throws her head back laughing. She takes one last look at her younger self. She says, "Yes." The door opens. And in that instant between opening and closing, between past and future colliding and realigning as 29 briskly steps onto the green carpet outside, 14 disappears and there is nobody there, only light streaming through the bookstore glass in the late afternoon.
