The screw through Cinder's ankle had rusted, the engraved cross marks worn to a mangled circle. Her 
knuckles ached from forcing the screwdriver into the joint as she struggled to loosen the screw one 
gritting twist after another. By the time it was extracted far enough for her to wrench free with her 
prosthetic steel hand, the hairline threads had been stripped clean. Tossing the screwdriver onto the 
table, Cinder gripped her heel and yanked the foot from its socket. A spark singed her fingertips and 
she jerked away, leaving the foot to dangle from a tangle of red and yellow wires. She slumped back 
with a relieved groan. A sense of release hovered at the end of those wires—freedom. Having loathed 
the too-small foot for four years, she swore to never put the piece of junk back on again. She just 
hoped Iko would be back soon with its replacement. Cinder was the only full-service mechanic at New 
Beijing’s weekly market. Without a sign, her booth hinted at her trade only by the shelves of stock 
android parts that crowded the walls. It was squeezed into a shady cove between a used netscreen 
dealer and a silk merchant, both of whom frequently complained about the tangy smell of metal and 
grease that came from Cinder’s booth, even though it was usually disguised by the aroma of honey buns 
from the bakery across the square. Cinder knew they really just didn’t like being next to her. A 
stained tablecloth divided Cinder from browsers as they shuffled past. The square was filled with 
shoppers and hawkers, children and noise. The bellows of men as they bargained with robotic 
shopkeepers, trying to talk the computers down from their desired profit margins. The hum of ID 
scanners and monotone voice receipts as money changed accounts. The netscreens that covered every 
building and filled the air with the chatter of advertisements, news reports, gossip. Cinder’s 
auditory interface dulled the noise into a static thrumming, but today one melody lingered above the 
rest that she couldn’t drown out. A ring of children were standing just outside her booth, trilling—
“Ashes, ashes, we all fall down!”—and then laughing hysterically as they collapsed to the pavement. A 
smile tugged at Cinder’s lips. Not so much at the nursery rhyme, a phantom song about pestilence 
anddeath that had regained popularity in the past decade. The song itself made her squeamish. But she 
did love the glares from passersby as the giggling children fell over in their paths. The 
inconvenience of having to swarm around the writhing bodies stirred grumbles from the shoppers, and 
Cinder adored the children for it. “Sunto! Sunto!” Cinder’s amusement wilted. She spotted Chang Sacha, 
the baker, pushing through the crowd in her flour-coated apron. “Sunto, come here! I told you not to 
play so close to—” Sacha met Cinder’s gaze, knotted her lips, then grabbed her son by the arm and spun 
away. The boy whined, dragging his feet as Sacha ordered him to stay closer to their booth. Cinder 
wrinkled her nose at the baker’s retreating back. The remaining children fled into the crowd, taking 
their bright laughter withthem. “It’s not like wires are contagious,” Cinder muttered to her empty 
booth. With a spine-popping stretch, she pulled her dirty fingers through her hair, combing it up into 
a messy tail, then grabbed her blackened work gloves. She covered her steel hand first, and though her 
right palm began to sweat immediately inside the thick material, she felt more comfortable with the 
gloves on, hiding the plating of her left hand. She stretched her fingers wide, working out the cramp 
that had formed at the fleshy base of her thumb from clenching the screwdriver, and squinted again 
into the city square. She spotted plenty of stocky white androids in the din, but none of them Iko. 
Sighing, Cinder bent over the toolbox beneath the worktable. After digging through the jumbled mess 
ofscrewdrivers and wrenches, she emerged with the fuse puller that had been long buried at the bottom. 
One by one, she disconnected the wires that still linked her foot and ankle, each spurting a tiny 
spark. She couldn’t feel them through the gloves, but her retina display helpfully informed her with 
blinking red text that she was losing connection to the limb. With a yank of the last wire, her foot 
clattered to the concrete. The difference was instant. For once in her life, she felt…weightless. She 
made room for the discarded foot on the table, setting it up like a shrine amid the wrenches and lug 
nuts, before hunkering over her ankle again and cleaning the grime from the socket with an old rag. 
THUD. Cinder jerked, her head smacking the underside of the table. She shoved back from the desk, her 
scowl landing first on a lifeless android that sat squat on her worktable and then on the man behind 
it. She was met with startled copper-brown eyes and black hair that hung past his ears and lips that 
every girl in the country had admired a thousand times. Her scowl vanished. His own surprise was 
short-lived, melting into an apology. “I’m sorry,” he said. “I didn’t realize anyonewas back there.” 
Cinder barely heard him above the blankness in her mind. With her heartbeat gathering speed, her 
retinadisplay scanned his features, so familiar from years spent watching him on the netscreens. He 
seemed taller in real life and a gray hooded sweatshirt was like none of the fine clothes he usually 
made appearances in, but still, it took only 2.6 seconds for Cinder’s scanner to measure the points of 
his face and link his image to the net database. Another second and the display informed her of what 
she already knew; details scribbled across the bottom of her vision in a stream of green text. PRINCE 
KAITO, CROWN PRINCE OF THE EASTERN COMMONWEALTH ID #0082719057 BORN 7 APR 108 T.E. FF 88,987 MEDIA 
HITS, REVERSE CHRON POSTED 14 AUG 126 T.E.: A PRESS MEETING IS TO BE HOSTED BY CROWN PRINCE KAI ON 15 
AUG TO DISCUSS THE ONGOING LETUMOSIS RESEARCH AND POSSIBLE LEADS FOR AN ANTIDOTE— Cinder launched up 
from her chair, nearly toppling over when she forgot about her missing limb. Steadying herself with 
both hands on the table, she managed an awkward bow. The retina display sank out of sight. “Your 
Highness,” she stammered, head lowered, glad that he couldn’t see her empty ankle behind the 
tablecloth. The prince flinched and cast a glance over his shoulder before hunching toward her. 
“Maybe, um…”— he pulled his fingers across his lips—“on the Highness stuff?” Wide-eyed, Cinder forced 
a shaky nod. “Right. Of course. How—can I—are you—” She swallowed, the words sticking like bean paste 
to her tongue. “I’m looking for a Linh Cinder,” said the prince. “Is he around?” Cinder dared to lift 
one stabilizing hand from the table, using it to tug the hem of her glove higher on her wrist. Staring 
at the prince’s chest, she stammered, “I-I’m Linh Cinder.” Her eyes followed his hand as he planted it 
on top of the android’s bulbous head. “You’re Linh Cinder?” “Yes, Your High—” She bit down on her lip. 
“The mechanic?” She nodded. “How can I help you?” Instead of answering, the prince bent down, craning 
his neck so that she had no choice but to meet his eyes, and dashed a grin at her. Her heart winced. 
The prince straightened, forcing her gaze to follow him. “You’re not quite what I was expecting.” 
“Well you’re hardly—what I—um.” Unable to hold his gaze, Cinder reached for the android and pulled it 
to her side of the table. “What seems to be wrong with the android, Your Highness?” The android looked 
like it had just stepped off the conveyer belt, but Cinder could tell from the mockfeminine shape that 
it was an outdated model. The design was sleek, though, with a spherical head atop a pear-shaped body 
and a glossy white finish. “I can’t get her to turn on,” said Prince Kai, watching as Cinder examined 
the robot. “She was working fine one day, and the next, nothing.” Cinder turned the android around so 
its sensor light faced the prince. She was glad to have routine tasks for her hands and routine 
questions for her mouth—something to focus on so she wouldn’t get flustered and lose control of her 
brain’s net connection again. “Have you had problems with her before?” “No. She gets a monthly checkup 
from the royal mechanics, and this is the first real problem she’s ever had.” Leaning forward, Prince 
Kai picked up Cinder’s small metal foot from the worktable, turning it curiously over in his palms. 
Cinder tensed, watching as he peered into the wire-filled cavity, fiddled with the flexible joints of 
the toes. He used the too-long sleeve of his sweatshirt to polish off a smudge. “Aren’t you hot?” 
Cinder said, instantly regretting the question when his attention returned to her. For the briefest 
moment, the prince almost looked embarrassed. “Dying,” he said, “but I’m trying to be inconspicuous.” 
Cinder considered telling him it wasn’t working but thought better of it. The lack of a throng of 
screaming girls surrounding her booth was probably evidence that it was working better than she 
suspected. Instead of looking like a royal heartthrob, he just looked crazy. Clearing her throat, 
Cinder refocused on the android. She found the nearly invisible latch and opened its back panel. “Why 
aren’t the royal mechanics fixing her?” “They tried but couldn’t figure it out. Someone suggested I 
bring her to you.” He set the foot down and turned his attention to the shelves of old and battered 
parts—parts for androids, hovers, netscreens, portscreens. Parts for cyborgs. “They say you’re the 
best mechanic in New Beijing. I was expecting an old man.” “Do they?” she murmured. He wasn’t the 
first to voice surprise. Most of her customers couldn’t fathom how a teenage girl could bethe best 
mechanic in the city, and she never broadcast the reason for her talent. The fewer people who knew she 
was cyborg, the better. She was sure she’d go mad if all the market shopkeepers looked at her with the 
same disdain as Chang Sacha did. She nudged some of the android’s wires aside with her pinkie. 
“Sometimes they just get worn out. Maybe it’s time to upgrade to a new model.” “I’m afraid I can’t do 
that. She contains top-secret information. It’s a matter of national security that I retrieve 
it…before anyone else does.” Fingers stalling, Cinder glanced up at him. He held her gaze a full three 
seconds before his lips twitched. “I’m just joking. Nainsi was my first android. It’s sentimental.” An 
orange light flickered in the corner of Cinder’s vision. Her optobionics had picked up on something, 
though she didn’t know what—an extra swallow, a too-quick blink, a clenching of the prince’s jaw. She 
was used to the little orange light. It came up all the time. It meant that someone was lying. 
“National security,” she said. “Funny.” The prince listed his head, as if challenging her to 
contradict him. A strand of black hair fell into his eyes. Cinder looked away. “Tutor8.6 model,” she 
said, reading the faintly lit panel inside the plastic cranium. The android was nearly twenty years 
old. Ancient for an android. “She looks to be in pristine condition.” Raising her fist, she thunked 
the android hard on the side of its head, barely catching it before it toppled over onto the table. 
The prince jumped. Cinder set the android back on its treads and jabbed the power button but nothing 
happened. “You’d be surprised how often that works.” The prince let out a single, awkward chuckle. 
“Are you sure you’re Linh Cinder? The mechanic?” “Cinder! I’ve got it!” Iko wheeled out of the crowd 
and up to the worktable, her blue sensor flashing. Lifting one pronged hand, she slammed a brand-new 
steel-plated foot onto the desk, in the shadow of the prince’s android. “It’s a huge improvement over 
the old one, only lightly used, and the wiring looks compatible as is. Plus, I was able to get the 
dealer down to just 600 univs.” Panic jolted through Cinder. Still balancing on her human leg, she 
snatched the foot off the table and dropped it behind her. “Good work, Iko. Nguyen-shìfu will be 
delighted to have a replacement foot for his escort-droid.” Iko’s sensor dimmed. “Nguyen-shìfu? I 
don’t compute.” Smiling through locked teeth, Cinder gestured at the prince. “Iko, please pay your 
respects to our customer.” She lowered her voice. “His Imperial Highness.” Iko craned her head, aiming 
the round sensor up at the prince, who towered more than three feet above her. The light flared as her 
scanner recognized him. “Prince Kai,” she said, her metallic voice squeaking. “You are even more 
handsome in person.” Cinder’s stomach twisted in embarrassment, even as the prince laughed. “That’s 
enough, Iko. Get in the booth.” Iko obeyed, pushing aside the tablecloth and ducking under the table. 
“You don’t see a personality like that every day,” said Prince Kai, leaning against the booth’s door 
frame as if he brought androids to the market all the time. “Did you program her yourself?” “Believe 
it or not, she came that way. I suspect a programming error, which is probably why my stepmother got 
her so cheap.” “I do not have a programming error!” said Iko from behind her. Cinder met the prince’s 
gaze, was caught momentarily dazzled by another easy laugh, and ducked her head back behind his 
android. “So what do you think?” he asked. “I’ll need to run her diagnostics. It will take me a few 
days, maybe a week.” Tucking a strand of hair behind one ear, Cinder sat down, grateful to give her 
leg a rest while she examined the android’s innards. She knew she must be breaking some rule of 
etiquette, but the prince didn’t seem to mind as he tipped forward, watching her hands. “Do you need 
payment up front?” He held his left wrist toward her, embedded with his ID chip, but Cinder waved a 
gloved hand at him. “No, thank you. It will be my honor.” Prince Kai looked about to protest but then 
let his hand fall. “I don’t suppose there’s any hope of havingher done before the festival?” Cinder 
shut the android’s panel. “I don’t think that will be a problem. But without knowing what’s wrong with 
her—” “I know, I know.” He rocked back on his heels. “Just wishful thinking.” “How will I contact you 
when she’s ready?” “Send a comm to the palace. Or will you be here again next weekend? I could stop by 
then.” “Oh, yes!” said Iko from the back of the booth. “We’re here every market day. You should come 
by again. That would be lovely.” Cinder flinched. “You don’t need to—” “It’ll be my pleasure.” He 
dipped his head in polite farewell, simultaneously pulling the edges of the hood farther over his 
face. Cinder returned the nod, knowing she should have stood and bowed, but not daring to test her 
balance a second time. She waited until his shadow had disappeared from the tabletop before surveying 
the square. The prince’s presence among the harried crowd seemed to have gone unnoticed. Cinder let 
her muscles relax. Iko rolled to her side, clasping her metal grippers over her chest. “Prince Kai! 
Check my fan, I think I’moverheating.” Cinder bent over and picked up her replacement foot, dusting it 
off on her cargo pants. She checked the plating, glad that she hadn’t dented it. “Can you imagine 
Peony’s expression when she hears about this?” said Iko. “I can imagine a lot of high-pitched 
squealing.” Cinder allowed one more wary scan of the crowd beforethe first tickle of giddiness stirred 
inside her. She couldn’t wait to tell Peony. The prince himself! An abrupt laugh escaped her. It was 
uncanny. It was unbelievable. It was— “Oh, dear.” Cinder’s smile fell. “What?” Iko pointed at her 
forehead with a pronged finger. “You have a grease splotch.” Cinder jerked back and scrubbed at her 
brow. “You’re kidding.” “I’m sure he hardly noticed.” Cinder dropped her hand. “What does it matter? 
Come on, help me put this on before any other royalty stops by.” She propped her ankle on the opposite 
knee and began connecting the color-coordinated wires, wondering if the prince had been fooled. “Fits 
like a glove, doesn’t it?” Iko said, holding a handful of screws while Cinder twisted them into the 
predrilled holes. “It’s very nice, Iko, thank you. I just hope Adri doesn’t notice. She’d murder me if 
she knew I’d spent 600 univs on a foot.” She tightened the last screw and stretched out her leg, 
rolling her ankle forward, back, wiggling the toes. It was a little stiff, and the nerve sensors would 
need a few days to harmonize with the updated wiring, but at least she wouldn’t have to limp around 
off-kilter anymore. “It’s perfect,” she said, pulling on her boot. She spotted her old foot held in 
Iko’s pincers. “You can throw that piece of junk awa—” A scream filled Cinder’s ears. She flinched, 
the sound peaking in her audio interface, and turned toward it. The market silenced. The children, who 
had switched to a game of hide-and-seek among the clusteredbooths, crept out from their hiding spots. 
The scream had come from the baker, Chang Sacha. Baffled, Cinder stood and climbed on top of her chair 
to peer over the crowd. She spotted Sacha in her booth, behind the glass case of sweet breads and pork 
buns, gawking at her outstretched hands. Cinder clamped a hand over her nose at the same moment 
realization skittered through the rest of the square. “The plague!” someone yelled. “She has the 
plague!” The street filled with panic. Mothers scooped up their children, masking their faces with 
desperate hands as they scrambled to get away from Sacha’s booth. Shopkeepers slammed shut their 
rolling doors.Sunto screamed and rushed toward his mother, but she held her hands out to him. No, no, 
stay back. A neighboring shopkeeper grabbed the boy, tucking the child under his arm as he ran. Sacha 
yelled something after him, but the words were lost in the uproar. Cinder’s stomach churned. They 
couldn’t run or Iko would be trampled in the chaos. Holding her breath,she reached for the cord at the 
booth’s corner and yanked the metal door down its rail. Darkness cloakedthem but for a single shard of 
daylight along the ground. The heat rose up from the concrete floor, stifling in the cramped space. 
“Cinder?” said Iko, worry in her robotic voice. She brightened her sensor, washing the booth in blue 
light. “Don’t worry,” Cinder said, hopping down from the chair and grabbing the grease-covered rag 
from the table. The screams were already fading, transforming the booth into its own empty universe. 
“She’s all the way across the square. We’re fine here.” But she slipped back toward the wall of 
shelves anyway, crouched down and covered her nose and mouth with the rag. There they waited, Cinder 
breathing as shallowly as possible, until they heard the sirens of the emergency hover come and take 
Sacha away. Chapter Four PEONY SLUGGED CINDER IN THE SHOULDER, NEARLY PUSHING her into a pile of bald 
android treads. “How could you wait so long to tell me? You’ve only been home for, what, four hours?” 
“I know, I know, I’m sorry,” said Cinder, rubbing her shoulder. “There wasn’t a good time, and I 
didn’t want Adri to know. I don’t want her taking advantage of it.” “Who cares about what Mom thinks? 
I want to take advantage of this. Good stars, the prince. In your booth. I can’t believe I wasn’t 
there. Why wasn’t I there?” “You were busy being fitted in silk and brocade.” “Ugh.” Peony kicked a 
broken headlight out of her path. “You should have commed me. I would have been there in two seconds, 
unfinished ball gown and all. Ugh. I hate you. It’s official, I hate you. Are you going to see him 
again? I mean, you’ll have to, right? I might be able to stop hating you if you promise to bring me 
with you, all right, deal?” “Found one!” Iko called from ten yards ahead. Her floodlight targeted the 
body of a rusted hover, entrenching the piles of debris behind it in shadows. “So? What was he like?” 
Peony said, keeping pace as Cinder hurried toward the earthbound vehicle, as if being near her was now 
on par with being near His Imperial Highness himself. “I don’t know,” said Cinder, unlatching the 
vehicle’s hood and lifting it up on the prop-rod. “Ah, good, it hasn’t been scavenged.” Iko scooted 
out of Cinder’s way. “He was polite enough not to point out the giant grease stain on her forehead.” 
Peony gasped. “Oh, you didn’t!” “What? I’m a mechanic. I get dirty. If he wanted me to get all gussied 
up, he should have commed ahead. Iko, I could use some light in here.” Iko tilted her head forward, 
illuminating the engine compartment. On Cinder’s other side, Peony clucked her tongue. “Maybe he 
thought it was a mole?” “That makes me feel much better.” Cinder pulled a pair of pliers from her bag. 
The night sky was clear, and though the lights from the city blocked out any stars, the sharp crescent 
moon lurked near the horizon, a sleepy eye squinting through the haze. “Is he as handsome in real life 
as he looks on the netscreens?” “Yes,” said Iko. “Even more handsome. And awful tall.” “Everyone’s 
tall to you.” Peony leaned against the front bumper, arms folded. “And I want to hear Cinder’s 
opinion.” Cinder stopped poking the pliers around the engine as the memory of his easy smile rushed 
into her. Though Prince Kai had long been one of Peony’s favorite topics—she was probably in every one 
of his net fangroups—Cinder had never imagined that she might share the admiration. In fact, she’d 
always thought Peony’s celebrity crush was a little silly, a little preadolescent. Prince Kai this, 
Prince Kai that. An impossible fantasy. But now… Something in Cinder’s face must have said enough, 
because Peony suddenly shrieked and lunged at her, wrapping her arms around Cinder’s waist and hopping 
up and down. “I knew it! I knew you liked him too! I can’t believe you actually met him! It’s not 
fair. Did I mention how much I hate you?” “Yes, yes, I know,” said Cinder, prying Peony’s arms off 
her. “Now go be giddy somewhere else. I’m trying to work.” Peony made a face and skipped away, 
twirling amid the piles of junk. “What else? Tell me everything. What did he say? What did he do?” 
“Nothing,” said Cinder. “He just asked me to fix his android.” She peeled away the spiderwebs from 
what had once been the hover’s solar generator but was now little more than a plastic shell. A cloud 
of dust kicked up into her face and she pulled away, coughing. “Ratchet?” Iko plucked the ratchet from 
her torso and handed it to Cinder. “What kind of android is it?” asked Peony. Cinder pried the 
generator from the compartment with a grunt and set it on the ground beside the hover. “An old one.” 
“Tutor8.6,” said Iko. “Older than me. And he said he would come back to the market next weekend to 
pick it up.” Peony kicked a rusted oil can out of the path before bending over the engine. “The news 
said the market’s going to be shut down next week because of the outbreak.” “Oh—I hadn’t heard that.” 
Cinder wiped her hands on her pants, peering down into the engine’s lower compartment. “I guess we’ll 
have to drop it off at the palace then.” “Yes!” Peony jigged in place. “We’ll go together and you can 
introduce me and—and—” “Aha!” Cinder beamed. “Magbelt.” Peony cupped her cheek in her palm, raising 
her voice. “And then he’ll recognize me at the ball, and I’ll dance with him and—Pearl will be livid!” 
She laughed, as if angering her older sister were life’s greatest accomplishment. “If the android’s 
even done before the ball.” Cinder selected a wrench from the tool belt slung around her hips. She 
didn’t want to inform Peony that Prince Kai probably wouldn’t be the one signing for deliveries at the 
palace. Peony whisked her hand through the air. “Well, or whenever.” “I want to go to the ball,” said 
Iko, gazing up at the horizon. “It’s prejudice not to let androids attend.” “Petition the government 
then. I’m sure Peony will be happy to take your cause direct to the prince himself.” Cinder clamped 
onto Iko’s spherical head and forced her to aim the light back into the hood. “Now hold still. I’ve 
just about got this end detached.” Cinder stuck the wrench to Iko, then pried the magbelt from its 
bracket, letting it clatter to the ground below. “One side down, one to go.” She led the way around 
the hover, clearing a path through the garbage so Iko’s treads wouldn’t get stuck. Peony followed and 
climbed on top of the hover’s trunk, folding her legs beneath her. “You know, somepeople are saying 
he’s going to be looking for a bride at the ball.” “A bride!” said Iko. “How romantic.” Cinder lowered 
herself onto her side behind the hover’s back bumper and took a small flashlight from her tool belt. 
“Hand me that wrench again?” “Didn’t you hear me? A bride, Cinder. As in, a princess.” “As in, not 
going to happen. He’s only, what? Nineteen?” Tucking the flashlight between her teeth, Cinder took the 
wrench from Iko. The bolts in the back had less rust on them, better protected from the overhanging 
trunk, and took only a few quick turns to loosen. “Eighteen and a half,” said Peony. “And it’s true. 
All the gossip links are saying so.” Cinder grunted. “I would marry Prince Kai in a heartbeat.” “Me 
too,” said Iko. Cinder spit out the flashlight and shuffled to the fourth corner. “You and every other 
girl in the Commonwealth.” “Like you wouldn’t,” said Peony. Cinder didn’t answer as she loosened the 
final bolt gripping the magbelt. It released and fell to the ground with a clang. “There we go.” She 
slid out from beneath the car and tucked the wrench and flashlight into her calf compartment before 
standing. “See any other hovers worth scavenging while we’re here?” Pulling the magbelt out from 
beneath the hover, she folded it at its hinges, forming a less cumbersome metal rod. “I did see 
something over there.” Iko swished the light around the stacks. “Not sure what model.” “Great. Lead 
the way.” Cinder nudged the android with the belt. Iko took off, muttering about being stuck in 
junkyards while Adri was all clean and cozy at home. “Besides,” said Peony, hopping off the trunk, 
“the rumor that he’s looking for a bride at the ball is a lot better than what the other rumors are 
saying.” “Let me guess. Prince Kai is actually a martian? Or no, no—he had an illegitimate child with 
an escort, didn’t he?” “Escort-droids can have children?” “No.” Peony huffed, blowing a curl off her 
brow. “Well, this is even worse. They say there’s been talk of him marrying…” She dropped her voice to 
a harsh whisper. “Queen Levana.” “Queen—” Cinder froze and clamped a gloved hand over her mouth, 
glancing around as if someone could be lurking in the piles of garbage, listening. She pulled her hand 
away but kept her voice down. “Honestly, Peony. Those tabloids are going to rot your brain.” “I don’t 
want to believe it either, but they’re all saying it. That’s why the queen’s witchy ambassador has 
been staying at the palace, so she can secure an alliance. It’s all very political.” “I don’t think 
so. Prince Kai would never marry her.” “You don’t know that.” But she did know. Cinder may not know 
much about inter-galactic politics, but she knew Prince Kai would be a fool to marry Queen Levana. The 
lingering moon caught Cinder’s attention, and a shock of goose bumps covered her arms. The moonhad 
always given her a sense of paranoia, like the people who lived up there could be watching her, and if 
she stared for too long, she might draw their attention. Superstitious nonsense, but then everything 
about Lunars was eerie and superstitious. Lunars were a society that had evolved from an Earthen moon 
colony centuries ago, but they weren’t human anymore. People said Lunars could alter a person’s 
brain—make you see things you shouldn’t see, feel things you shouldn’t feel, do things you didn’t want 
to do. Their unnatural power had made them a greedy and violent race, and Queen Levana was the worst 
of all of them. They said she knew when people were talking about her even thousands of miles away. 
Even down on Earth. They said she’d murdered her older sister, Queen Channary, so she could take the 
throne from her. Theysaid she’d had her own husband killed too so she would be free to make a more 
advantageous match. They said she had forced her stepdaughter to mutilate her own face because, at the 
sweet age of thirteen,she had become more beautiful than the jealous queen could stand. They said 
she’d killed her niece, her only threat to the throne. Princess Selene had only been three years old 
when a fire caught in her nursery, killing her and her nanny. Some conspiracy theorists thought the 
princess had survived and was still alive somewhere, waiting for the right time to reclaim her crown 
and end Levana’s rule of tyranny, but Cinder knew it was only desperation that fueled these rumors. 
After all, they’d found traces of the child’s flesh in the ashes. “Here.” Iko raised her hand and 
knocked on a slab of metal jutting from a huge mound of junk, startling Cinder. She shoved the 
thoughts aside. Prince Kai would never marry that witch. He could never marry a Lunar. Cinder pushed a 
few rusted aerosol cans and an old mattress aside before she was able to clearly make out the hover’s 
nose. “Good eye.” Together they shuffled enough junk out of the way so that the full front of the 
vehicle could be seen. “I’ve never seen one like this,” Cinder said, running a hand over the pitted 
chrome insignia. “It’s hideous,” said Peony with a sneer. “What an awful color.” “It must be really 
old.” Cinder found the latch and pulled open the hood. She drew back, blinking at the mess of metal 
and plastic that greeted her. “Really old.” She squinted into the front corner of the engine,but the 
undercarriage hid the magbelt clamps from view. “Huh. Point the light over there, would you?” Cinder 
lowered herself to the dirt. She tightened her ponytail before squirming under the hover, shovingaside 
the jumble of old parts that had been left to rust in the weeds beneath it. “Stars,” she muttered when 
she was able to look up into its belly. Iko’s light filtered down from above, through cables and 
wires, ducts and manifolds, nuts and bolts. “This thing is ancient.” “It is in a junkyard,” said 
Peony. “I’m serious. I’ve never seen anything like it.” Cinder ran a hand along a rubber cable. The 
light flashed back and forth as Iko’s sensor scanned the engine from above. “Any useful parts?” “Good 
question.” Cinder’s vision tinted blue as she connected to her netlink. The car’s dome-shaped body was a yellow-orange shade that looked sickly under Iko’s 
light—a color that no one in modern times would choose—but with the antique style of the vehicle it 
bordered on charming. Rust was creeping up from the hollow beneath the shattered headlights,arching 
along the dented fender. One of the back windows was missing, but the seats were intact, albeit mildew 
covered and torn and probably home to more than just rodents. The steering wheel and dash seemed to 
have suffered only minor damage over the years. “Maybe it could be our escape car.” Peony peered into 
the passenger’s side window. “Escape from what?” “Adri. New Beijing. We could get out of the 
Commonwealth altogether. We could go to Europe!” Cinder rounded the driver’s side and scrubbed the 
dirt from the window with her glove. On the floor inside, three pedals winked up at her. Though hovers 
were all controlled by computer, she had read enough about old technology to know what a clutch was 
and even had a basic idea of how to operate one. “This hunk of metal wouldn’t get us to the city 
limits,” said Peony. Stepping back, Cinder dusted off her hands. They were probably right. Maybe this 
wasn’t a fantasy vehicle, maybe it wasn’t their key to salvation, but somehow, someday, she would 
leave New Beijing. She would find a place where no one knew who she was—or what she was. “Plus, we 
couldn’t afford the gasoline,” continued Iko. “We could trade in your new foot and still not beable to 
afford enough fuel to get out of here. Plus, the pollution fines. Plus, I’m not getting in this thing. 
There’s probably decades’ worth of rat droppings under those seats.” Peony cringed. “Ew.” Cinder 
laughed. “All right, I get it. I won’t make you guys push the car home.” “Whew, you had me worried,” 
said Peony. She smiled because she hadn’t really been worried and flipped her hair off her shoulder. 
Cinder’s eye caught on something—a dark spot below Peony’s collarbone, visible just above the collar 
of her shirt. “Hold still,” she said, reaching forward. Peony did the opposite, panicking and swiping 
at phantoms on her chest. “What? What is it? A bug? A spider?” “I said, hold still!” Cinder grabbed 
Peony by the wrist, swiped at the spot—and froze. Dropping Peony’s arm, she stumbled back. “What? What 
is it?” Peony tugged on her shirt, trying to see, but then spotted another spot on the back of her 
hand. She looked up at Cinder, blood draining from her face. “A…a rash?” she said. “From the car?” 
Cinder gulped and neared her with hesitant footsteps, holding her breath. She reached again for 
Peony’s collarbone and pulled the fabric of her shirt down, revealing the entire spot in the 
moonlight. A splotch of red, rimmed with bruise purple. Her fingers trembled. She pulled away, meeting 
Peony’s gaze. Peony screamed. PEONY’S SHRIEKS FILLED THE JUNKYARD, SEEPING INTO THE cracks of broken 
machinery andoutdated computers. Cinder’s auditory interface couldn’t protect her from the shrill 
memory, even as Peony’s voice cracked and she dissolved into hysteria. Cinder stood trembling, unable 
to move. Wanting to comfort Peony. Wanting to run away. How was this possible? Peony was young, 
healthy. She couldn’t be sick. Peony cried, brushing repeatedly at her skin, the spots. Cinder’s 
netlink took over, as it did in moments when she couldn’t think for herself. Searching, connecting, 
feeding information to her she didn’t want. Letumosis. The blue fever. Worldwide pandemic. Hundreds of 
thousands dead. Unknown cause, unknown cure. “Peony—” She tentatively reached forward, but Peony 
stumbled back, swiping at her wet cheeks and nose. “Don’t come near me! You’ll get it. You’ll all get 
it.” Cinder retracted her hand. She heard Iko at her side, fan whirring. Saw the blue light darting 
over Peony,around the junkyard, flickering. She was scared. “I said, get back!” Peony collapsed to her 
knees, hunching over her stomach. Cinder took two steps away, then lingered, watching Peony rock 
herself back and forth in Iko’s spotlight. “I…I need to call an emergency hover. To—” To come and take 
you away. Peony didn’t respond. Her whole body was rattling. Cinder could hear her teeth chattering in 
between the wails. Cinder shivered. She rubbed at her arms, inspecting them for spots. She couldn’t 
see any, but she eyed her right glove with distrust, not wanting to remove it, not wanting to check. 
She stepped back again. The junkyard shadows loomed toward her. The plague. It was here. In the air. 
Inthe garbage. How long did it take for the first symptoms of the plague to show up? Or… She thought 
of Chang Sacha at the market. The terrified mob running from her booth. The blare of the sirens. Her 
stomach plummeted. Was this her fault? Had she brought the plague home from the market? She checked 
her arms again, swiping at invisible bugs that crawled over her skin. Stumbled back. Peony’s sobs 
filled her head, suffocating her. A red warning flashed across her retina display, informing her that 
she was experiencing elevated levels of adrenaline. She blinked it away, then called up her comm link 
with a writhing gut and sent a simple message before she could question it. EMERGENCY, TAIHANG 
DISTRICT JUNKYARD. LETUMOSIS. She clenched her jaw, feeling the painful dryness of her eyes. A 
throbbing headache told her that she should be crying, that her sobs should match her sister’s. “Why?” 
Peony said, her voice stammering. “What did I do?” “You didn’t do anything,” said Cinder. “This isn’t 
your fault.” But it might be mine. “What should I do?” Iko asked, almost too quiet to be heard. “I 
don’t know,” said Cinder. “A hover is on its way.” Peony rubbed her nose with her forearm. Her eyes 
were rimmed in red. “You n-need to go. You’ll catch it.” Feeling dizzy, Cinder realized she’d been 
breathing too shallowly. She took another step away before filling her lungs. “Maybe I already have 
it. Maybe it’s my fault you caught it. The outbreak at the market today…I-I didn’t think I was close 
enough, but…Peony, I’m so sorry.” Peony squeezed her eyes and buried her face again. Her brown hair 
was a mess of tangles hanging across her shoulders, stark against her pale skin. A hiccup, followed by 
another sob. “I don’t want to go.” “I know.” It was all Cinder could think to say. Don’t be scared? It 
will be all right? She couldn’t lie, not when it would be so obvious. “I wish there was something…” 
She stopped herself. She heard the sirens before Peony did. “I’m so sorry.” Peony swiped at her nose 
with her sleeve, leaving a trail of mucus. Then kept crying. She didn’t responduntil the wails of the 
sirens reached her ears and her head snapped up. She stared into the distance, the entrance of the 
junkyard somewhere beyond the trash heaps. Eyes rounded. Lips trembling. Face blotchyred. Cinder’s 
heart shriveled in on itself. She couldn’t help herself. If she was going to catch it, she already 
had. She fell to her knees, wrapping Peony up in both arms. Her tool belt dug into her hip, but she 
ignored it as Peony grasped at her T-shirt, sobs renewed. “I’m so sorry.” “What will you tell Mom and 
Pearl?” Cinder bit her lips. “I don’t know.” Then, “The truth, I guess.” Bile rose in her mouth. Maybe 
it was a sign. Maybe stomach sickness was a symptom. She looked downat her forearm, embracing Peony to 
her. Still no spots. Peony shoved her away, scooting back in the dirt. “Stay away. You might not be 
sick yet. But they would take you. You have to get out of here.” Cinder hesitated. She heard the 
crunch of treads over scattered aluminum and plastic. She didn’t want toleave Peony, but what if she 
really hadn’t caught it yet? She sat back on her heels, then clambered to her feet. Yellow lights were 
nearing them from the shadows. Cinder’s right hand was sweating in its glove. Her breathing had 
shallowed again. “Peony…” “Go! Go away!” Cinder stepped back. Back. Had the bleary sense to stop and 
pick up the folded magbelt. She moved toward the exit, her human leg as numb as the prosthesis. 
Peony’s sobs chased after her. Three white androids met her around a corner. They had yellow sensors 
and red crosses painted on their heads and two were pushing a hovering gurney between them. “Are you 
the letumosis victim?” one asked in a neutral voice, holding up an ID scanner. Cinder hid her wrist. 
“No. My sister, Linh Peony. She-she’s that way, to the left.” The med-droids with the gurney wheeled 
away from her, down the path. “Have you had direct contact with the victim in the past twelve hours?” 
the remaining android asked. Cinder opened her mouth, hesitated. Guilt and fear curdled in her gut. 
She could lie. There was no proof she had it yet, but if they took her to the quarantines, she didn’t 
stand a chance. But if she went home, she could infect everyone. Adri. Pearl. Those screeching, 
laughing children rushing through the hallways. She could barely hear her own voice. “Yes.” “Are you 
showing symptoms?” It held up the ID scanner in one pronged hand, and then a third arm appeared from within its torso—a 
syringe in place of grippers. Cinder shuddered but didn’t resist as it grabbed her right wrist and 
inserted the needle. She flinched, watching as dark liquid, almost black in the android’s yellow 
light, was pulled up into the syringe. She was not afraid of needles, but the world began to tilt. The 
android removed it just in time for her to slump down onto the crate. “What are you doing?” she 
whispered. “Initiating blood scan for letumosis-carrying pathogens.” Cinder heard a motor start up 
inside the android, faint beeps announcing each step. The android’s light dimmed as its power source 
was diverted. She held her breath until her control panel kicked in and forced her lungs to contract. 
“ID,” said the android, holding the scanner out to her. A red light passed over her wrist and the 
scanner beeped. The android stashed it away in its hollow torso. She wondered how long it would take 
for it to finish the scan and determine that she was a carrier, confirming that she was at fault. For 
everything. The sound of treads approached along the path. Cinder turned her head as the two androids 
appeared with Peony atop their gurney. Swollen eyes wildly darted around the junkyard as if searching for an escape. As if she’d stumbled 
into a nightmare. But she didn’t try to run. No one ever put up a fight when being taken to the 
quarantines. Their eyes met. Cinder opened her mouth but nothing came out. She tried to plead 
forgiveness with her eyes. The faintest of smiles touched Peony’s lips. She raised a hand and waved 
with only her fingers. Cinder returned it, knowing it should be her. She had already outlived fate 
once. She should be the one being carted away. She should be the one dying. It should be her. It was 
about to be her. She tried to speak, to tell Peony she would be right behind her. She wouldn’t be 
alone. But then the android beeped. “Scan complete. No letumosis-carrying pathogens detected. Subject 
is urged to stand fifty feet back from infected patient.” Cinder blinked. Relief and dread both 
squirmed inside her. She wasn’t sick. She wasn’t going to die. She wasn’t going with Peony. “We will 
alert you via comm when Linh Peony enters the subsequent stages of the disease. Thank you for your 
cooperation.” Cinder wrapped her arms around herself and watched Peony lay down as she was carted 
away, curling up like a child on the gurney. Chapter Six CINDER SLINKED THROUGH THE BALMY NIGHT, THE 
SOUND of her boots shuffling across the concrete, as if both legs were made of steel. The empty night 
was a chorus of muted sounds in her head: the sandy crunching of Iko’s treads, the sputtering of 
street lamps above them, the constant hum of the magnetic superconductor beneath the street. With 
every step, the wrench inside Cinder’s calf clanked. It all dulled in comparison to the video replaying in her mind. Her interface did that sometimes—recording moments of strong emotion and replaying them over and over. Like déjà vu or when the last words of a conversation linger in the air long after silence has settledin. Usually, she could make the memory stop before it drove her crazy, but tonight she didn’t have the energy.Instead of answering, Cinder peeled off her gloves and shoved them into her back pocket. Her faintness passing, she leaned her shoulder against a street lamp and drank in the humid air. They’d made it home, almost. The Phoenix Tower apartments stood on the next corner, only the top floor catching the faint light from the crescent moon, the rest of the building cast in shadow. The windows were black but for a handful of lights and some bluish white glares from flickering netscreens. Cinder counted floors, finding the windows to the kitchen and Adri’s bedroom. Though dim, a light was still on somewhere in the apartment. Adri wasn’t a night person, but perhaps she’d discovered that Peony was still out. Or perhaps Pearl was awake, working on a school project or comming friends late into the night. It was probably better this way. She didn’t want to have to wake them. “What am I going to tell them?” Iko’s sensor was on the apartment building for a moment, then the ground, picking up the shuffled debris across the sidewalk. Cinder rubbed her sweaty palm on her pants and forced herself onward. Try as she might, suitable wordswould not come to her. Explanations, excuses. How do you tell a woman her daughter is dying? She swiped her ID and entered through the main door this time. The gray lobby was decorated only witha netscreen that held announcements for the residents—a rise in maintenance fees, a petition for a new ID scanner at the front door, a lost cat. Cinder’s stomach clenched. She drew a half step back into the hallway, wondering which of them was sick, but she quickly realized that neither of them could be. The androids would have taken them immediately. They wouldn’t be protecting their breath. The entire building would be on lockdown. She noticed a small bandage on Adri’s elbow. They’d already been tested. Cinder shifted her messenger bag, setting it on the ground, but kept the magbelt. Adri cleared her throat and lowered the cloth to her sternum. She looked like a skeleton in the pale lighting, mealy skin and jutting bones. Without makeup, dark circles swelled beneath her bloodshot eyes. She’d been crying, but now her lips were set in a stiff line. “I received a comm an hour ago,” she said once the silence had congealed in the room. “It informed me that Peony was picked up in the Taihang District junkyard and taken—” “Yes, Linh-ji ,” said Iko, wheeling back into thehallway. Cinder stayed, frozen, both hands clutching the magbelt like a shield. Though the android was incapable of ignoring Adri’s commands, it was clear from her slowness that she didn’t want to leave Cinder alone so long as the med-droids were watching with their hollow yellow sensors. “Why,” said Adri, wringing the washcloth, “was my youngest daughter at the Taihang District junkyard this evening?” Cinder drew the magbelt against her, lining it up from shoulder to toe. Made of the same steel as her hand and equally tarnished, it felt like an extension of her. “She came with me to look for a magbelt.” She drew in a heavy breath. Her tongue felt swollen, her throat closing in. “I’m so sorry. I didn’t—I sawthe spots, and I called the emergency hover. I didn’t know what to do.” Tears puddled in Adri’s eyes, briefly, before she blinked them away. She dropped her head, staring down at the twisted cloth. Her body sagged against the mantel. “I wasn’t sure that you would come backhere, Cinder. I expected to receive another comm at any minute, telling me that my ward had also been taken.” Adri pulled her shoulders back, lifting her gaze. The weakness passed, her dark eyes hardened. “These med-droids tested Pearl and myself. The plague has not yet spread to either of us.” Cinder started to nod, relieved, but Adri continued. “Tell me, Cinder. If Pearl and I are not carrying the disease, where did Peony get it from?” “I don’t know.” “You don’t know? But you did know about the outbreak in the market today.” Cinder’s lips parted. Of course. The cloths. The med-droids. They thought she was infected. “I don’t understand you, Cinder. How could you be so selfish?” She jerked her head, no. “They tested me too, at the junkyard. I don’t have it. I don’t know where she got it from.” She held out her arm, showing the bruise blooming on her inner elbow. “They can check again if they want to.” One of the med-droids showed its first sign of life, shining the light at the small red spot where the needle had pricked her. But they didn’t move, and Adri didn’t encourage them. Instead, she turned her attention to a small framed portscreen on the mantel, shuffling through pictures of Pearl and Peony in their childhood. Pictures at their old house, the one with the garden. Pictures with Adri, before she’d lost her smile. Pictures with their father. “I’m so sorry,” said Cinder. “I love her too.” Adri squeezed the frame. “Don’t insult me,” she said, sliding the frame closer to her. “Do your kind even know what love is? Can you feel anything at all, or is it just…programmed?” She was talking to herself, but the words stung. Cinder risked a glance at Pearl, who was still sitting on the sofa with her face half-hidden behind her knees, but she was no longer holding the washcloth to her face. When she saw Cinder looking at her, she turned her gaze to the floor. Cinder flexed her fingers against the magbelt. “Of course I know what love is.” And sadness too. She wished she could cry to prove it. “Good. Cinder watched her shoulders tremble, listened to the short gasps of breath as she tried to stifle the sobs. Not to do anything that could ruin their reputation. “Take her,” said Adri. “Get her out of my sight.” “I didn’t volunteer. You can’t take me against my will!” The android was unperturbed. “We have been authorized by your legal guardian to take you into custodythrough the use of force if necessary.” Cinder curled her fingers, balling a fist against her ear. “You can’t force me to be a test subject.” “Yes,” said Adri, her own breathing labored. “I can. So long as you are under my guardianship.” “You don’t really think this will save Peony, so don’t pretend this is about her. She has days. The chances of them finding a cure before—” “Then my only mistake was in waiting too long to be rid of you,” Adri said, running the washcloth between her fingers. “Believe me, Cinder. You are a sacrifice I will never regret.” The treads of one of the med-droids clattered against the carpet. “Are you prepared to come with us?” Cinder pursed her lips and lowered her hand from her face. She glared at Adri, but she could find no sympathy in her stepmother’s eyes. A new hatred boiled up inside her. Warnings flashed in her vision. “No. I’m not.” Cinder swung the magbelt, smacking it hard against the android’s cranium. The robot fell to the floor, treads spinning midair. “I won’t go. Scientists have done enough to me already!” A second android rolled toward her. “Initiating procedure 240B: forcible removal of cyborg draft subject.” Cinder sneered and shoved the end of the magbelt at the android’s sensor, shattering the lens and thrusting it onto its back. She spun around to face the last android, already thinking how she would run from the apartment. Wondering if it would be too risky to call a hover. Wondering where to find a knife for cutting out her ID chip, otherwise they were sure to track her. Wondering if Iko would be fast enough to follow. Wondering if her legs could carry her all the way to Europe. Cinder Save the man from apartment 1807. The med-droid approached too fast. She stumbled, changing the trajectory of the magbelt, but the android’s metal pinchers grasped her wrist first. Electrodes fired. Electricity sizzled through Cinder’s nervous system. The voltage overwhelmed her wiring. Cinder’s lips parted, but the cry stuck in the backof her throat. She dropped the magbelt and collapsed. Red warnings flashed across her vision until, in an act of cyborgself-preservation, her brain forced her to shut down. Chapter Seven DR. DMITRI ERLAND DRAGGED HIS FINGER ACROSS THE portscreen, scanning the patient’s records. Male. Thirty-two years old. He had a child but no mention of a spouse. Unemployed. Turned cyborg after a debilitating work-related accident three years ago, no doubt spent most of his savings on the surgery. He’d traveled all the way from Tokyo. On the other side of the glass, the patient was laid out on the lab table. He looked peaceful but for madly tapping fingers against the plastic cushions. His feet were bare, but skin grafting covered the prosthesis. “Too old?” said the assistant. She stood and came to the window, waving her own portscreen at him. “Thirty-two is too old now?” “We can’t use him.” She bunched her lips to one side. “Doctor, this will be the sixth draft subject you’ve turned away this month. We can’t afford to keep doing this.” “He has a child. A son. It says so right here.” “Yeah, a child who’ll be able to afford dinner tonight because his daddy was lucky enough to fit our subject profile.” “To fit our profile? With a 6.4 percent ratio?” “It’s better than testing on people.” She dropped the portscreen beside a tray of petri dishes. “You reallywant to let him go?” Dr. Erland glared into the quarantine room, a growl humming in the back of his throat. Pulling his shoulders back, he tugged down on his lab coat. “Placebo him.” “Pla—but he’s not sick!” “Yes, but if we don’t give him anything, the treasury will wonder what we’re doing down here. Now, give him a placebo and submit a report so he can be on his way.” The girl huffed and went to grab a labeled vial from a shelf. “What are we doing down here?” Dr. Erland held up a finger, but the girl gave him such an irritated look that he forgot what he’d been about to say. “What’s your name again?” She rolled her eyes. “Honestly. I’ve only been your assistant every Monday for the past four months.” She turned her back on him, her long black braid whipping against her hip. Dr. Erland’s eyebrows drew together as he stared at the braid, watching as it wound itself up, curling in on itself. Ready to strike. He slammed shut his eyes and counted to ten. When he opened them again, the braid was just a braid. Shiny black hair. Harmless. Pulling off his hat, Dr. Erland took a moment to rub at his own hair, gray and considerably less full thanhis assistant’s. The visions were getting worse. The door to the lab room opened. “Doctor?” He jolted and stuffed his head back into the hat. “Yes?” he said, grabbing his portscreen. Li, another assistant, lingered with his hand on the doorknob. Dr. Erland had always liked Li—who was also tall butnot as tall as the girl. “There’s a volunteer waiting in 6D,” said Li. “Someone they brought in last night.” “A volunteer?” said the girl. “Been a while since we had one of those.” Li pulled a portscreen from his breast pocket. “She’s young too, a teenager. We haven’t run her diagnostics yet, but I think she’s going to have a pretty high ratio. No skin grafting.” Dr. Erland perked up, scratching his temple with the corner of his port. “A teenage girl, you say? How…” He fumbled for an appropriate descriptor. Unusual? Coincidental? Lucky? “Suspicious,” said the girl, her voice low. Dr. Erland turned, found her glower bearing down on him. “Suspicious? Whatever do you mean?” She perched against the edge of the counter, diminishing her height so she was eye level, but she still seemed intimidating with her folded arms and unimpressed scowl. “Just that you’re always more than willing to placebo the male cyborgs that come in, but you perk right up when you catch word of a girl, especially the young ones.” He opened his mouth, closed it, then started again. “The younger, the healthier,” he said. “Placebo, please. Come join us when you’ve finished.” He stepped out of the lab room, Li at his side, and cupped a hand around his mouth. “What is her name again?” “Fateen?” “Fateen! I can never remember that. One of these days, I’ll be forgetting my own name.” Li chuckled, and Dr. Erland was glad he’d made the joke. People seemed to overlook an old man losing his mind if he occasionally made light of it. The hallway was empty save for two med-droids lingering by the stairwell, awaiting orders. The girl’s hands and wrists had been fastened with metal bands. Her left hand was steel, tarnished and dark between the joints as if it needed a good cleaning. Her pant legs had been rolled up her calves, revealing one human leg and one synthetic. “Is she plugged in yet?” he asked, slipping his port into his coat pocket. “Not yet,” said Li. “But look at her.” Dr. Erland grunted, staving off his disappointment. “Yes, her ratio should be impressive. But it’s not thebest quality, is it?” “Not the exterior maybe, but you should have seen her wiring. Autocontrol and four-grade nervous system.” She suspects the patient has already had contact with the disease. A sister— taken in yesterday.” Dr. Erland pulled the microphone across the desk. “Wakey, wakey, sleeping beauty,” he sang, rapping on the glass. “They stunned her with 200 volts,” said Li. “But I expect her to be coming around any minute now.” Dr. Erland hooked his thumbs on his coat pockets. “Well. We don’t need consciousness. Let’s go ahead and get started.” “Oh, good,” Fateen said in the doorway. Her heels clipped against the tile floor as she entered the lab room. “Glad you found one to suit your tastes.” Dr. Erland pressed a finger to the glass. “Young,” he said, eyeing the metallic sheen of the girl’s limbs. “Healthy.” With a sneer, Fateen claimed a seat before a netscreen that projected the cyborg’s records. “If thirty-twois old and decrepit, what does that make you, old man?” “Very valuable in the antique market.” Dr. Erland lowered his lips to the mic. “Med? Ready the ratio detector, if you please.” Chapter Eight SHE WAS LYING ON A BURNING PYRE, HOT COALS BENEATH HER back. Flames. Smoke. Blisters burbling across her skin. Her leg and hand were gone, leaving stumps where the surgeons had attached her prostheses. Dead wires dangled from them. She tried to crawl but was as useless as an upended turtle. She reached out with her one hand, trying to drag her body from the fire, but the bed of coals stretched off into the horizon. She’d had this dream before, a hundred times. This time though, it was different. Instead of being all alone, like usual, she was surrounded. Other crippled victims writhed among the coals, moaning, begging for water. They were all missing limbs. Some were nothing more than a head and a torso and a mouth, pleading, pleading. The scar tissue
where flesh met metal. A small dark square in her wrist—her ID chip. But those things she had known. 
Those things she had expected. She had not known about the metal vertebrae along her spine, or the 
four metal ribs, or the synthetic tissue around her heart, or the metal splints along the bones in her 
right leg. The bottom of the screen was labeled: RATIO: 36.28% She was 36.28 percent not human. 
