You pause in front of the small canvas, only eleven by fifteen, and I can tell by your eyes that you actually see it. A dirty receipt crushed into the pavement. A crumpled fast-food wrapper, a soft drink can with the metal twisted, its red paint too vibrant. Cigarette butts and an apple core, the flesh browning. Do you like it? My therapist recommended the rehab facility to me. I'd been seeing her for a while, trying to unravel all the bits of my life that tangled together but didn't add up to a bigger picture of anything. I'm not unique; you've known ten of me. Overcompensating for the shit in my childhood by earning hard, owning a bigger house than my friends, driving a faster car. But even I saw it when my second marriage fell apart, and my kids told me they didn't enjoy the vacation I took them on to Cancun. "They take away your sight temporarily," my therapist told me. I frowned. "How does that help?" I remember as a child going through a phase--probably only a few days, really--when I was obsessed with wearing a blindfold and asking others to give me assignments to accomplish. I imagined what it'd be like to be blind: how I'd have to relearn navigating the house and street I'd always known, how my very perception would change. But of course I could see light around the blindfold, knew I'd remove it as soon as I wanted to. I don't think I believed her until I was at the facility, in the operating room. The procedure didn't hurt; nothing even touched my eyes. I simply couldn't see. No light. No color. No shapes. "The panic's normal," an aide said, holding my arms until I stopped flailing. "But you know there's no way we'd still be in business if we didn't really give your sight back in two weeks, right?" A hundred paranoid scenarios passed through my mind as he led me by the hand down a hallway, but I calmed down after a hot bath in a tiled room with rainforest noises. Then, wrapped in a plush robe, I was guided to an outdoor patio where I sat in a lounger with a glass of fresh-squeezed orange juice. A warm breeze stirred; birds sang all around, and though I knew cardinals and blue jays by sight, I couldn't tell you what kinds of birds were nearby. "I don't recognize you," a low voice said beside me. I startled; I thought I was alone. "Are you new here?" "You can see me?" I asked. "No. I don't recognize your presence. Everyone has a way of carrying themselves: their stride, how they sit, the sounds they make when drinking." I was impressed. "How long have you been here?" He was finishing a three-week visit. His family had asked him to come: a stressful career in finance in the city had gradually unbalanced him; he hadn't been sober at a family event in years; he'd recently attempted to kill himself with pills. I heard a lot of stories like that during my stay, in the dining hall or the massage rooms. Women, men, fathers, daughters, partners, parents, people from all walks of life who woke up one morning to realize they were caught in a cycle, slowly killing themselves and the ones they loved, and they had to do something about it. Those first days, I wanted to see the expressions on their faces, certain I'd understand them better if I did. Only later did I recognize that wishing for a glimpse of them kept me from hearing them as well, observing the fragile nuances of their voices, the sounds of their gestures in the air. I told my story too, over and over. I remembered new details each time, things that once had been essential facts of my reality. The naive joy of tent camping for my first honeymoon right after college, because we couldn't afford anything else. My love of art class in high school, which I didn't pursue at college because I needed to study something practical. So many things I thought I knew completely showed me new sides of themselves. Noodles dangling from a fork, covered with pesto, taste different without vision. Steam bubbling up from a spa. Leaves rustling in the wind. The pitches and timbre of music. A hand touching your shoulder. Don't get me wrong. The first week was one of the hardest things I've done. Everything's out of your control. You have to trust total strangers for your most basic needs. I've never felt weaker. But I didn't want to leave when my two weeks were up. In the operating room, they gave me my sight again--only blurs of light and shadow at first. My sister picked me up, drove me to the city. When we got out of the car on my street, my vision had finally adjusted, and the first thing I saw was the curb under my shoes: a paper napkin stuck between the red bricks, a candy wrapper, brightly colored bits of sugar half dissolved by rain. I cried, it looked so beautiful. Your eyes move away from me, back to the canvas, studying it. Are you interested in this one?




They had only gone out a few times when Herk showed up naked at her work. Liza was working the register at Food Basket when she heard the commotion. She followed her manager, Mr. Vanik, to frozen foods where a figure huddled behind a fogged-up freezer door. "Herk?" Liza asked. He peeked out. "You're naked." "I know." Mr. Vanik lifted his cellphone. "I'm calling the police." "Wait." Liza's face reddened. "I know him." Mr. Vanik was a bald man with rolled up sleeves. "Then get him out of here." He snapped his fingers and walked off. Rhonda from the deli brought over an apron for Herk to cover himself. Then Liza walked him to the parking lot. Their eyes met. "What are you doing here?" "Sorry." Herk's eyes were large. "One minute I was in my apartment eating a microwave dinner and then poof, I was at the grocery store. Naked." "Weird." "Right?" "Your butt's showing." Herk closed the apron. "Look, Liza. I'm not a creeper. And I'm not stalking you. I swear." Liza folded her arms and glanced around. She felt like everyone was staring. "Maybe we should take a break, Herk?" She lowered her eyes. "This is just too weird." The next time Liza saw Herk was at the DMV. She hadn't remembered that he worked there until her ticket was called and she stepped to his window. He wore blue-framed glasses and a button-down polo. He actually looked kind of cute. She handed over her license. "Herk." "Liza." "Haven't seen you around Food Basket." He cringed. "No." "So tell me the truth. What happened that day?" He vacillated. "Well, it turns out I have a condition called teleportitis. I recently got a diagnosis. It's pretty rare." Herk handed back her license. "So you teleport? Out of the blue?" "Yeah." "What triggers it?" "No clue." Liza bit her lip. "Maybe I can help you figure it out?" She smiled. It wasn't like she loved the guy; she was just curious. Two weeks later, they were regularly seeing each other. Liza even slept over at Herk's place. He never acted weird or embarrassing and she started feeling happy. Maybe she finally found a good boyfriend? Then Herk teleported again. "Your friend's here," said Rhonda. "The naked guy." "Oh, no." Liza ran across the store. Herk was back in frozen foods, sitting naked on the linoleum. Liza smiled. "You're early. We're supposed to meet at seven." "Funny." She bent down. "Teleportitis?" He nodded. "I was in my apartment cooking some pasta, thinking about you, and then poof." "Thinking about me?" An elderly couple with matching red sweatshirts poked their cart into the aisle. They gasped and retreated. "What were you thinking about?" "Nothing bad." Herk stood up. "Can you get me an apron? Chilly around here." "OK." After Herk left, Rhonda approached, chewing gum. "He's a keeper." "Really?" said Liza. "Sure. He's so, I don't know, vulnerable?" Rhonda blew a bubble. "That's what you want, right? Somebody vulnerable?" In the following week, Herk teleported four times, always ending up in frozen foods. Each time Liza snuck him out the back before Mr. Vanik noticed. She started patrolling the aisle and keeping extra clothes in her trunk. At Herk's apartment, they replayed each incident, trying to learn the trigger. Herk always teleported in the middle of the day, from the kitchen, leaving a pile of clothes behind. And he always ended up in frozen foods. Their only conclusion was that he teleported when he thought about Liza. "What are you thinking about? Sex?" "No." "Then what?" "Nothing weird." He paced. "Just about when I'm gonna see you next. About how I'm looking forward to it." He raised his eyes. "Don't you think about me?" "Yeah, but." Liza sat at the kitchen table. She was afraid to tell Herk how much she thought about him, which was a lot. Instead she said, "Listen, Herk. It's sweet that you think about me. But you need to stop teleporting to Food Basket. It's embarrassing and I could lose my job. Or you could get in trouble. So, please. Stop." But a few days later, it happened again. This time Mr. Vanik was mopping one aisle over and called the police. Liza tried not to scream as Herk was handcuffed. "Sorry," he mouthed as he was dragged through the sliding doors. After Liza picked up Herk from the police station, they had a fight. "Everybody at work was laughing at me," she said. "They think I'm going out with a crazy person." "I can't help it." "Stop thinking about me." "I tried." She moaned. "Maybe you like me too much?" His voice cracked. "What are you saying?" "This is crazy." Liza turned. "I can't have a boyfriend who keeps showing up at my job naked. I just can't." A week later, Liza wandered into frozen foods, searching for Herk. Her chest hurt and she wanted to cry. Why wasn't Herk thinking about her? Why did he stop teleporting? Had she been too mean? Liza wished she hadn't pushed him away. She grabbed her phone, but was afraid to say the wrong thing. If only she could explain to Herk how much she liked him. How much she thought about him. Liza froze. Maybe she could? During her lunch break, Liza drove to the DMV. She grabbed a ticket and stood in the back of the room. Liza's heart pounded when she saw Herk working busily behind the window. It was now or never. She took a deep breath, removed all her clothes, and waited for her number to be called.





The crew working the consoles in the orbiting spaceship were reporting their analyses of the new world below. "Gravity, E plus five per cent." "Atmosphere 21 per cent oxygen, 78 nitrogen, remainder inert gases." "Day 26 E-hours, year 400 E-days." "Only a slight axial tilt. Little seasonal variation. Temperate all year over most of the world." "Approximately sixty percent ocean." "Ten per cent of the land is desert, twelve is mountain, remainder is forest, grassland." "All the major phyla..." "Birds, animals, insects, fish--give us more time here, the system can't manage. It's all too much...." "No signs of cultivation, housing, roadways, any sort of infrastructure. Almost certainly there's no intelligent life...." Camera drones skimmed the surface of the new world and the crew could see sunlight glittering off serene rivers and tranquil lakes, and seas laced with silvery backs and blue fins; grasslands grazed by placid ruminants, and meadows bright with multi-colored blooms; soft breezes rustled the leaves of the trees and flocks of songbirds wheeled overhead in exuberant arabesques. "It's perfect!" No one disagreed. And the Captain spoke. "Recall the drones. Withdraw to standard operating distance. Arm the devices." Two hours later the planet glowed red with unnatural blooms. In total, there were more than ten thousand such missions. Until finally it could be said, without contradiction, that Earth--broken, polluted, diseased--yes, that Earth was the galaxy's fairest world.



The rooftop terrace where Anton awaited his lunch jutted precipitously out over the Vegas Strip. When viewed from the street below, this gave one the impression that the building was in a deep yaw to starboard. During the night, the dappled pink and purple neon lights overpowered the stars, but in the sun-soaked Nevada day, the neons were likewise swallowed by the churning fusion reactor some ninety-three million miles above. A million tourists were or would soon be awakening from their post-revelry slumber. Anton leaned back in his chair and sipped at a "Pomegranarita"--a phonetically clumsy portmanteau of a remarkably refreshing drink, once you got past the flotilla of tiny umbrellas in the glass. Anton pinched one of the mini parasols between his thumb and forefinger and spun it with a flick. It tumbled listlessly toward the ground, causing him to frown. I want you to rise. The umbrella changed course, gained altitude and flew over the balcony railing, a papier-mache ballerina pirouetting its way to the street. Anton followed it with his gaze until it passed a large billboard figure holding a black top hat and wearing a tuxedo. He smirked at his over-sized likeness for a time before deciding that its teeth needed whitening. Instantly, his multi-story grin brightened and shone with a cartoonish star-shaped sparkle on one tooth. This latter addition vanished when he decided it was too campy. In the haze beyond the billboard, a single red light blinked merrily atop a replica Eiffel Tower. Anton strained, stretching out his will to grasp at the electrics, but the lights continued to flicker, unperturbed by his efforts. Too far away. "Mr. Marvelo, can I have your autograph?" Anton turned to find a small girl standing sheepishly a few feet away, holding a blue spiral notebook adorned with frolicking unicorns. In her pale, white hand she held a comically large pen with a shower of pastel tassels protruding from one end. Her cheeks flushed pink as their gaze met and she looked down at her shoes. Some distance behind her stood a gaunt, equally pale woman holding a child's backpack. She chewed at her collagen-injected lower lip and clutched at the string of pearls around her neck. Anton motioned the girl over and the woman's shoulders relaxed. "How old are you, little one?" Anton asked. "Six," the girl muttered, still apprehensive. She held out her notebook in front of her, a shield against an uncomfortable interaction. The unicorns on the front cover were decorated with multicolored crayon wings. Across their eyes were hand-drawn black patches that Anton supposed were meant to be sunglasses. "Would you like me to sign your notebook?" The girl nodded, shield lowering marginally. "What is your name?" "Alice," she answered, softly, chewing on the tip of one finger. Anton took the pen and thumbed past dozens of crude drawings and sketches of fantastical beasts with misspelled block letter descriptions, ultimately finding a blank page midway through the jotter. His magician's signature was a point of particular pride. Even before he was famous, Anton had spent long hours in his single-room apartment in front of a mirror, practicing a technique that was equal parts function and flourish. He showcased this now, signing, "To Alice, with love--The Magnificent, Magnanimous Mr. Marvolo!" Beside his autograph, he sketched himself and Alice riding a winged unicorn. He motioned the girl closer and revealed the drawing, the page visible only to the two of them. The unicorn drawing reared up on the page, pen figures waving their arms in greeting. Alice giggled. Anton touched the page with a single finger and the drawing froze, unicorn and riders fixed in eternal greeting. "For you, my darling. Thank you for being my biggest little fan," he said, handing Alice the notebook. "Thank you so much for being understanding, Mr. Marvolo," Alice's mother interjected, joining her daughter tableside. "She... well, really we-are such big fans of yours." "It's no problem," Anton responded, showman's smile ablaze. "I always adore meeting enthusiastic young people." "That trick, the one where you drove a car into a mirror onstage then looked back out at the crowd was just amazing. My husband and I went to see it three times and we just couldn't believe it. So amazing." "So marvelous," Anton corrected, bowing his head slightly. "Thank you, I worked very hard on that one." The woman paused, hand to pearls again. These clattered nervously between her fingers. "I-- I don't suppose you could give me a hint about how you did it, could you?" He gave her a sly smile and a wink. "Trade secret, I'm afraid." The woman's cheeks blossomed into a ripe red and the duo backed away, mother giving something between a genuflect and a curtsey to mark their retreat. Anton ran his hand under his lapel, feeling the outline of the thin, oblong device taped to his chest. Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic. He chuckled at the thought. There were times when he had pangs of guilt for not saving the alien that handed it to him, but these were usually assuaged by a glance down at his tailored suit, manicured nails, and Piaget watch. He was the hottest act in Vegas now and the world was soon to follow. This certainly beat kids' birthday parties and nursing home shows. What did the creature expect? You couldn't hand someone a device that granted them virtually unlimited control over reality and realistically think they could resist its temptations? Of course, the alien offered its obligatory warnings, made more dire by its imminent demise and all--for emergencies only, dangers untold, that sort of thing. Anton was most dubious of the alien's claim that a star winked out with each use. But so what if it did? There were a billion trillion of them in the observable universe (he Googled it), some three hundred billion in the Milky Way alone--enough stars for a million billion lifetimes of use. It wasn't like you could see the stars in Vegas anyway. The lights made sure of that. "Sir, your lunch is ready." The waitress placed a sizzling plate of beurre blanc steak and lobster in front of him. Anton closed his eyes and inhaled, steaming butter and fresh cracked sea salt tickling the edges of his palate. "Will there be anyth--" A clattering noise interrupted his reverie and Anton opened his eyes, catching the last bounces of a serving tray as it fluttered to a stop near his feet. He looked up at the server's face and noted how the neon lights reflected in the whites of her wide-open eyes, eyes that gleamed in stark contrast to the now coal-black afternoon sky. A cold wind blew in from the desert, rolling up and across the terrace, carrying with it the rising screams of a million people.





Particle-noir winds from Sattigarius blow through the superconductor array frozen deep under the Ross Ice Shelf, howling like ghosts in the machine. Outside, it's thirty below. We huddle down and eavesdrop on physics inventing itself. They say all this must run remotely, with a satellite uplink, the result of the latest round of cuts; even McMurdo Station is being mothballed. We told them we need to stay on site. Privately, we know most of the electronics is a lash up, needing constant tinkering, but how can we admit that? They point to our record, the array down four months out of the last six. With more money and time we could fix it. But of course we have neither. The Boards Light Up, 01.22 GMT, 23rd July Hans Beck is in Washington, pestering his contacts in the NSF, trying to persuade them to think again about funding. He skypes us from his hotel room. "How's it going, Prof?" says Glen brightly. Glen's on his own circadian sleep cycle, stoked by coffee, the absence of sun and our poor spectrum fluorescents. Through the window behind Beck, the skies are blue over Washington. It must be midmorning there. We have no windows, but if we did, they would peer out onto snow swirling through darkness. "Things are bad here. Worse. This new Man in the Street policy..." Beck shakes his head. Glen turns the laptop upside down and puffs over the keyboard, dislodging hair and flakes. "For God's sake, Glen." "...and if it's not useful it's not funded." "Western edge of the array is acting up again," I say sleepily after a while. "It's that bug in the phasing software," Beck insists. Here is a problem he can fix, something real, something that's not about the economy or the new Administration's attitude to science. Then all our boards light up. Wow, 01.58 GMT, 23rd July. No one has time to answer Beck. His tinny voice rattles from Glen's laptop, repeatedly demanding to know what the hell's going on. Tau and muon neutrino spikes race across the screens. Either the whole array has gone bad, or someone with a reactor in Beijing is playing tricks with technology we never heard of. "That's a ternary code," mutters Glen, hours later, furiously scratching at his eczema. And the neutrino source moves across the sky as the planet spins beneath us. The signal is so large we can switch off the parallel grid. Beck designed it to operate as a separate phased array, effectively a directional aerial. In ten minutes Glen has coordinates. About two hundred thousand years ago, out in the Small Magellanic Cloud, a candle was lit in the dark. End of Signal, 07.06 GMT, 24th July. "It can't be natural," we tell Beck, helpless a world away. He is desperate that we don't make fools of ourselves, anxious about his project. "It's in ternary," I repeat. "And there are no electron neutrinos. What physics can do that?" "They're broadcasting," shrugs Glen, not taking his eyes off neutrino pulses like a heart in distress. "They?" "And the power output. You'd have to tweak a sun." "For God's sake, keep Glen away from the Internet," Beck implores me. For thirty amphetamine hours we chase the signal star, until a vast tsunami of neutrinos throb out of its stellar heart. Type 1a supernova signature. Then silence. "But you've got it all recorded?" Beck keeps asking. He gets on to the AU with the coordinates. There are still a few optical telescopes left that will observe the supernova light curve. Glen's as high as a kite. I'm set to crash first, while he watches the boards. "In case of what?" Glen asks. "It went supernova. There's nobody there now." "Hans is right. We can't be sure it's a signal." "Of course it's a signal." Glen sweeps his hand like the beam from a lighthouse. "We were just in the way." I show him the software I tinkered up to convert it to numbers. Across my laptop unwinds an endless jumble of 0,1 and 2's. We watch for a while, until Glen sighs. We have no idea where to start. Anomalous Neutrino Output From the Small Magellanic Cloud. Beck says there's no point flying back from the States. He's heard bad weather means we're being closed down early, shipping out with the last personnel from McMurdo. "There's still tons of gear to pack!" "Leave it. Perhaps we'll go back one day." "You know how long the array will last without us." He looks away from the screen. "What about the signal?" I know I'm angry with him for things not his fault. "What about it?" "It changes everything. Glen wonders if other supernovas were preceded by signals. And what if there's another one. What if there's a reply? The PNT's the only piece of kit able to..." "You've spent too long with Glen. Code's on the Net and I'm writing up a paper. What else can we do?" On his better days Glen has a theory. That they somehow pumped the star to generate neutrinos, like you pump the electrons in a ruby to make laser light. And of course they knew this would destabilize it, but it wasn't their sun. Those minds could still be out there, waiting for an answer. Other times, he says forget all that anthropic crap. Glen doesn't have many good days. We all had ancestors that survived the Pleistocene, struggling to make sense of the world, always looking for patterns, for shadows beneath the trees, thinking this was home. But what if it has no meaning, and suns burst with fathomless indifference, and nothing out there loves flesh that thinks? I believe they saw the end coming, and tried to tell somebody something. The brightness fades, it will soon be gone. A few weeks later and we would have missed it, the PNT shut down. Not all questions have answers. Our headphones hiss with ancient radio noise from galaxies lost in time; guilty survivors who listen late into the night, all alone, for voices, for someone to tell us it is otherwise.


Swear to God, that's what the sign said: Quantum Mechanics. A faded, peeling sign on a rickety garage on a weed-choked lot. I looked out the window from the little Mexican taqueria across the street, and it still said: "Quantum Mechanics." Damn misleading. "What's misleading?" the cook asked without turning. Damn. I must have been thinking with my mouth again. "Sorry," I said. "It's that sign. Quantum mechanics. That's not fixing cars." He turned this time, and for a moment I just stared at his right arm. Or rather what he had where a right arm should have been: a cross between a pirate's hook and a vise grip. He had a spatula fixed into it, with bits of my burrito beef stuck to it. "Mechanics fix cars," he said. "Yes," I said. "But..." I looked up at his face. He had the leathery brown skin and the prominent nose straight off an Aztec carving. "You add 'Quantum' to 'Mechanics,' and now it means something different. Like, this is Manny's Tacos, your name must be Manny and you make tacos." "Not really," he said. "My name is Ricardo. Manny retired, I bought the place from him with my pension money. And I'm making you a burrito. So you could say 'Manny's Tacos' is misleading, but you still knew before you walked in that you could get a burrito." He pointed at the grill with the spatula. I opened my mouth to object, but the smell of the grilling beef hit my nose and my mouth started to water and it was either shut up or talk through drool. I shut up. Ricardo turned toward a knife rack, unclipped the spatula from his stump, selected a knife, and rammed it into the vise grip with a movement like snapping a magazine into a rifle. He had an anchor tattooed on his arm, the bottom of the anchor disappearing under the cuff of the vise grip contraption. "Navy?" I said. He nodded without turning. "Got your arm blown off?" I asked. "Bit off," he said. "Shark." A woman came out of a back room. She was a blonde with frizzy curly hair and a tiny button nose. Ricardo leaned toward her for a kiss. "Shark," I said. "That must have hurt." The woman turned toward me sharply. There were tears in her eyes that hadn't been there a moment ago. She opened her mouth to say something. "Not that much. Not really," Ricardo said from behind her and put his good hand on her shoulder. She turned and tucked her face into the hollow of his neck. A scar ran down the back of her neck and disappeared into her dress. I thought of Nancy, and suddenly I wanted to go home. "How is that burrito doing?" I said. "Almost done," Ricardo said. I watched his shoulders move, and presently he turned toward me with a steaming burrito. "Here you go." I turned to look out the window again, and there was my car at the curb, exactly where I left it, except the dented grill now looked as straight and spotless as the day I bought the car. "I gotta run," I said. "Make it to go?" "What's the hurry?" Ricardo asked. I sighed. "My wife. She rear-ended a semi, holed the radiator, I yelled at her before I left home, and then the engine overheated, and I had to stop to get it fixed before it threw a rod. I haven't called her all day." He nodded. "Yeah," he said. "I know how you feel." "If only she'd said, 'I'm sorry.' Or took responsibility," I said. "But all I heard was, sudden stop this and wet pavement that. Really pissed me off." He nodded again. "So what did you tell the mechanic?" he said. "Make it good as new," I said. He nodded very slowly this time. "You might as well eat your burrito," he said, placed it in front of me, and walked away. It was the best burrito I had ever tasted, but I ate it as quickly as I could. The blonde woman brought me the check and waited, looking at me with her moist blue eyes as I counted out the bills. I left a bigger tip than usual because she looked so sad. Across the street, the sleepy mechanic took my money and handed me my keys. The car started smoothly, the oil and temperature gauges rose to normal levels. I reached for the adjustment lever, then realized the seat was at my perfect position already. I had been so angry when I left home that I kept it in Nancy's position, and let the crampiness feed my anger, but now it felt as comfortable as ever. "Good as new," I said. "As promised," the mechanic said, and waved me off. Nancy wasn't home. Nothing of Nancy's was home: not her clothes, not her shampoo, not her scent on the bed sheets, not her name on the mailbox. Not the spot on the sink where she dropped the frying pan and chipped the enamel, not the scratch on the parquet we made when she wanted to move the wall unit closer to the door and then changed her mind and moved it back. My car is good as new. My house, too. My whole life: good as new. Immaculate, unblemished, unencumbered. God, how I miss her.




"I love your hands," she says. Her date lifts their hand from where it covers hers on the tablecloth between them, stares at it briefly. "Funny you should say that. No one ever noticed my hands before." They lower their hand, squeeze hers briefly. "I am a pilot; I guess I need good hands." They hold hands on the walk back to her apartment. She imagines her date wrestling a hundred tons of metal across the sky. She feels the strength of her date's hand. She feels like they can walk forever like this, holding hands. It's less than a mile's walk. "Good night," she says. "I had a wonderful time," she adds, truthfully and with finality. Her date's expression does not change, but their posture stiffens. "Good night," they say, break hand contact, turn, and walk away. "I love your hands," she says. Her date pauses both their speech and their gesticulation, stares at their hand briefly. "I get that a lot," they say. "I volunteer at the shelter, handle dogs and cats all day. My hands are made for holding and petting." The look in their eyes is half self-congratulatory smirk, half leer. As they walk, her hand feels their possessive, demanding grip, the stiffness at their elbow that demands they walk in step. At her door, she frees her hand from theirs with an effort. "Good night," she says, and adds a lie: "I had a wonderful time." She opens her door, slips through, and shuts it in their face. The door is thick enough that her date's last words to her are garbled, but the tone is clear enough. "I love your hands," she says. "Just my hands?" her date asks. "That's all I see right now," she says, "other than your face." She pauses, and lies: "I like your face, too." In truth, she does not see their face, except to note it's a face, and its expression which right now is a faraway look, a thousand-yard stare, she can read expressions but faces as such are all the same to her. "I like your honesty," they say, with just enough irony to make her smile. They never get around to telling her what they do with their hands, nor reach over to hold hands on the way to her apartment. Halfway there, she touches their hand herself, for the first time in as long as she can remember. They do not recoil, much. She holds the door open for them, leads them up the stairs, directly to her bedroom. They wait, standing still, same thousand-yard stare, infinite patience, as she undresses, approaches, leans into an embrace. Their hands seem to barely move but soon range over all of her, linger in just the right places though she tries to hide her reactions, suppress her shudder, brace her knees that grow weaker by the second. She imagines them painting a micro-miniature in gouache, tiny strokes of the tiniest pen making barely visible curlicues on delicate, crinkly paper. She imagines them threading the thinnest catheter into the tiniest vein on the most premature baby. She imagines their hands caressing wires that lead from a clock to a detonator in what is clearly a bomb-- She explodes. "Why are you still dressed?" she asks. "You said you liked my hands," they say. "And?" "They are undressed," they say. "And the rest of you?" In truth, she cannot tell bodies apart any more than faces. She can read their expressions, too, but when at rest they all look utterly alike to her. "You didn't ask to see the rest of me," her date says. She holds her breath as she thinks: she could stop there. She could stay silent, her date would turn around, walk away, leave her sated in the afterglow, without making a single demand. She could; but there's just one more thing. She holds her breath a bit more, letting the tension build between them as well as inside her. "I'm asking now," she says, letting out her breath, knowing what breathlessness did to her voice. Her date undresses, slowly. She steps closer, reaches with her hand. Their hands close on her waist, pull her closer. "I like the rest of you," she lies. They clearly believe her. She smiles as that which she caresses gives evidence of their credence. She smiles even more as their hands begin to tremble.




She doesn't know you can't have both a rebel starfighter and a colonial interceptor dogfight in the same tattoo. The pair of ships that streak up the outside of her left calf and all the way around to the inside of her thigh is a travesty, though you have to admit it's dead sexy. Like her green skin, it got your attention. Obviously, she's a fake geek girl. She only put the tattoo in that location to distract men from its inauthentic vibe. You're distracted. You're also outraged. You're so outraged you bristle at the phaser she's got belted to the same hip, because it looks more like she badly painted and modded a real 9mm handgun to appear like the 60s TV prop. A true fan would know to rough the gun's surface and use a dull aluminum paint like the original propmaster did. She should have gotten the same dude who applied her skin makeup to help her there. You lament the phaser, the starfighter, the interceptor, the skin color. Three entirely different universes. All of them mixed up in one place. Amateur. When she unholsters the phaser with her left hand and levels it, draws a bead on one of the panelists on a raised dais at the front of the room, you want to call her on her bullshit right here and now. Does she really think she can get away with this? Then she quotes from one of the lesser-known tie-in novels and you groan. Of course, you know which book it's from, but, seriously. Who does that? It's barely even canon. "I've had it with your directives," she says. "Who put you in charge of the universe?" Of course she does. Of course. Because she's a fake geek girl. The quote is wrong, wrong, wrong. She's changed the meaning. It was spoken by a man in the novel. Besides, there weren't any left-handed crewmen on the original series. Wrong again. You've been a superfan forever, own all the books, the collections, the comics, VHS, DVDs, Blu-Ray remasters of every series. You even have a few Laserdiscs. You're confident you're right. Once again, you're outraged. Because if you're not outraged, you're not paying attention, right? You can't let tourists pollute your fandom with their constant updates, gender changes, reinterpretations. Let that go on and you lose the thread. Drop the ball. Give up the game. Kill the magic. Where does it all end? You have to speak up. "Well, actually," you say, "the quote is 'directive.' Singular." These things matter. She doesn't hear you. More likely, she just doesn't listen. They never do. She keeps her cheap-ass phaser leveled at the panelist, and people in the audience turn around to look at her like she's some sort of alien, puzzled at the interruption. They must know she's a fake geek girl. It's so obvious. The way she stands, shoulders squared, off-hand bracing her grip, steady against recoil, it's like she's never held a phaser in her life. She probably doesn't even know how one works. The panel moderator leans over his mic and says something about how she should wait her turn, then the sound system cuts out. You shake your head. What next? You're surrounded by amateurs. Maybe you should repeat the precise quote, but louder this time, because you still feel responsible. You have to stop her before she makes a huge mistake, gets it wrong, taints the legacy, ruins everyone's childhood. She'd want that. Anyone would. The last thing she would want is to be remembered for making a fool of herself in front of professionals and real fans. For being a fake geek girl, for not getting everything exactly right. Perfectly correct. If she doesn't want to face the certain taunts and ridicule both here--and, even worse, online--she would want to get it right. Unless she enjoys rape threats, she should care about getting it right. She should have studied more of your world and maybe she should have practiced before coming here, before ever opening her mouth, but she didn't. Now she'll suffer the consequences. Maybe that's what she wants. Maybe that's what she deserves. She can't go back anyway, even if she knows she should. It's too late for that. The only thing she can do is apologize and try to make up for her transgression. For her carelessness. Someone has to help. So, now it's on you. It's on you because you know better. She hasn't lived in this world the way you have. That's why you're here, to help others understand. It's time to be a hero. You put your hand on her shoulder. In one smooth movement, she spins, knocks your hand away, adjusts her stance, and swings the pistol's muzzle right in your face. You're impressed how quickly she moves. You enjoy watching the way her muscles flex, the way her hair dances then falls into place. So sexy. This close to her, you notice how good she smells. There's no scent of makeup or paint, and the green didn't come off on your hand. One point for her. She would totally be your type if she wasn't so clueless about all the other things that matter. You smile knowingly at her serious expression, then shake your head. It's so cute. Adorable. Maybe she's doing this to get your attention. The more you consider it, you might be right. It's all about you. No, you're sure of it. You're also pretty sure she's got the phaser set to stun. Does she know that? Probably not. Why should she? She's a fake geek girl. You should explain it to her.





After the bombs rained like fire and the riots faded, my daughter and I found ourselves alone in her room, our home surrounded by silence so deep it gouged my soul. The grandfather clock downstairs chimed once an hour, and rattled too, the cracked glass panel vibrating with the chimes. In the silence between chimes, Cara's heart beat too quietly, too slow, and out of sync. Cara squeezed my arm, her breath labored and her face pale, like the ghost she was in danger of becoming. "Mama, am I dying?" My heart hitched on a breath and for an endless moment I couldn't speak. "Yes, my love. Your heartsong is still fading." Before the attack, the answer would have been different, but three long days had passed without power, water, or contact. No National Guard, no Red Cross. How many homes had fallen across the city, the state, the country? How many husbands never made it home? How many children died waiting for life-saving surgeries? Cara shifted onto her side. She cuddled Snickerpoodle, the relic of a windup doll my mom gave her last Christmas before she herself succumbed to illness. I rubbed Snickerpoodle's curly black hair, earning a weak smile from my daughter. "Can you fix my heart?" Just days ago, I'd fought for that very thing, but hospital rules prohibited me operating on family. The rules had changed, but without power or medical staff, how could I save Cara? "I'll think of something," I said and smiled, because her confidence in me was all she had left. I snuggled her until the grandfather clock chimed again. The damned clock was the only sound, the only evidence we had survived. What made it special, a stupid invention of wood, gears, and glass? I bolted upright. Gears. I slipped out of Cara's bed and ran around the house, tossing supplies into Cara's backpack, then returned and lifted her too-light body in my arms. Our two-family home stood undamaged, the only one on this street now, but my Rav4 sat in the driveway surrounded by debris and a dangling gas cap. No matter--I had two feet. I hugged Cara to my chest; she wrapped her legs around my waist, rested her head on my shoulder, and we began the long walk to the hospital. The sidewalks were damp with drying rain, puddles attracted to the cracks. The fires must have died during last night's rain, but the stench of smoldering rubber and flesh irritated my nostrils. I nudged Cara's face against my neck to protect her from it. Glass and debris carpeted the street right up to the hospital, blood spattered generously. Whenever we passed a body, I averted my gaze. There was no one to help here, and no hope of finding my beloved David. If he hadn't returned home after the riots, he never would. I stepped through the busted hospital doors, breathless after the long hike. Sunlight streamed in through window frames, creating pockets of glimmering light across the shadowed corridors. It got us to the main stairway and up to the O.R., which was windowless and dark. I felt my way around to lay Cara on a gurney, then raided the emergency supplies for a flashlight. The stench in the room was worse for regaining my vision. Someone had abandoned a surgery, left their patient, her surgical meds. Whispering a prayer for the dead woman, I thanked her for sharing her medication. I loaded the gurney with surgical tools and bandages, everything my imaginary nurse would hand me during Cara's surgery. I kept my backpack close, the metal contents clinking together now and again. It sounded like hope. Or perhaps insanity. After a quick search of the second floor, a corner office aglow with the late morning sun became my operating room. I scrubbed with bottled water and alcohol until my fingers burned, then washed and laid out all my tools: meds, needle, thread, surgical knives, gears harvested from the grandfather clock, and more. My gaze fell on the gears, too large to fit into my daughter's chest cavity now that I could compare them. Tears stung my eyes. I'd come too far to give up on Cara, too far to admit defeat. Cara followed my movements, hugging Snickerpoodle, a doll that lasted the last hundred years through generations of my family, a doll that was about to outlive us. "What are we doing, Mama?" "Fixing your heart, love." "Then we'll go find Daddy?" Now was not the time for the truth. "Soon as you're up for it." I leaned close, stroked the doll's brown face. We'd repainted the eyes twice since Cara acquired it, once to give her sight and the second to have the eyes match Cara's brown. How had such a thing survived? My lips went suddenly dry, my breath stolen from my lungs. "Cara, I have to ask a favor. It's important." She nodded, the barest of movements. "Would Snickerpoodle like to donate some organs?" "Will I get her back?" "Yes, but she'll be a little different." Cara bit her lip, considering, then smiled. "I'll still love her." "She's a brave little girl." After kissing Cara's forehead, I started an IV with a small dose of the sedative. Waiting for it to take effect, I washed her chest with alcohol, swirling little dances with my fingers, tickling, sending my sweetheart off to dreamland with a smile. The sunlight pushed through the room and faded with the afternoon as I sliced my daughter's chest open. Her little heart was warm to the touch. Its song pulsated against my fingers as softly as any heart I'd ever touched. My life's work was in the operating room, fixing little hearts, and I'd heard so many over the years, each with its own cadence and tone. Nothing tore me down faster than this song, which I'd heard before, in the chests of little ones I couldn't save. My own heart drummed too quickly, but my hands were steady, and the augmentation eased into place. Closing and stitching went smoothly. I waited until dusk, pacing, watching her chest rise and fall until I couldn't keep my eyes open. I melted to the floor and curled into dreamless sleep, waking only when Cara whimpered. "Mama?" "I'm here." I sprang up, panicked, and gripped her bed rail for balance. Cara squinted and looked around. "Where's Snickerpoodle?" "Here," I pressed the doll into her hands. "And her winder-upper?" I took Cara's hand and put it to her left side, next to her heart. The metal was warm between our fingers, warmer than her heart had been last night. I'd have to teach her to wind and clean the key, but we had time for that. Maybe not forever, but today and as many stolen moments as my clockwork daughter could rally, if only she accepted the changes, and if the magic worked. Magic lived in the doll; had protected my ancestors right up until my mom gave it to Cara. Nothing else could explain the unlikely events leading to our survival. She listened. "Mommy, what happened to my heartbeat?" "Snickerpoodle isn't the only one who's a little different now," I said softly. "Tell me, love, how does it feel?" "My heart hums, like Snickerpoodle used to." "Is it humming a good song?" Cara caressed the empty key socket then explored her side again. Her cheeks were flush for the first time in a year. She took a deep long breath. "You made me a new heartsong, Mommy, and it's good."







Must have transaction soon!!! This male specimen is a bargain! Owner threatened with foreclosure. Male, 33 years, fully intact, 145 I.Q., with numerous apps and utilities. Height, 5'11. Weight, waist and 44" chest, with toned and developed skeletal muscle. Has minor kidney issue. Tele calls only, please--no electronic solicitations. LONG RANGE TOYOTA #3 CLASS SPACECRAFT AT A DISCOUNT: Will accept physical currency only--no electronic payment. This powerful, luxurious, interplanetary range camper has had only one owner, and will make it to outer planets and back on one tankful of propellant. All features in working order. Owner is upgrading. Immaculate condition!ANCIENT CATTLE HERD, BUTCHERED AND IN DEEP FREEZE: For people with special nutritional needs, or perhaps a meat fetish. This is a lifetime supply of "beef" for those who can't tolerate synthetic food, soy protein, and the like. Or keep as collector's item. No spoilage!! Lot is in excess of 5 tons. Previous owner deceased and was disallowed from new body, due to legal issues. This store will be auctioned off on 5/25/3012 beginning at 8 a.m. Prime Meridian Time. Contact: Come see my inventory of pristine albeit outdated hardware! Good for hobbyists, or educating teens. Buyer can make a profit if dismantled and recycled, or items can be used for some light security situations [seller makes no guarantees of effectiveness]. Haul them away and they're yours--I need them out of here! Please just show up--do not contact. Be polite please. Will not "part out." Buyer must take away entire lot. 






Heads. Most people wouldn't decide to ship out to the colonies on a coin flip, but we're not most people, right babe? When they said you wouldn't come out of the coma I had the medical team transmute your consciousness into a gold coin. The head is your lovely face; the "tail" on the back is a double helix segment of your DNA. You're in my pocket forever, my lucky piece. You know how we used to fight--no, not really fight--love fights, little kitten tussles--about who got to make the decisions? Well now it's all you. I flip the coin, you decide what we do. You are still in there, aren't you? Heads. I'll upload my consciousness to the shipboard computer, and put my body in stasis. Your coin will remain safely in my pocket, keeping my body company for a trip that will take decades for you but only an instant for my uploaded mind. You know me so well, babe. You know I desperately want to see the colony itself, and not languish for decades on a stinking colony ship, only to die en route or arrive too old to enjoy our new life. I hear it's like the Wild West out there. Cash for the taking, if a man is bold enough to stake it. I hear you saying reckless, but you're wrong. Not reckless. Brave. Tails. I didn't pay the extra charge for the body replacement, so when we arrive I'll go back into my own body, no upgrades. You are so sentimental, to have me keep my physical form. Is it because you lost yours? Or because you're worried about the expense? I know you're always trying to rein me in, but this time you'll see. There's so much land, a man can stake all he can claim. A new gold rush, with crystalized rocket fuel instead of gold. You'll see. The wildcatters are out there, staking their claim on all the riches a planet can hold. We'll be in the money for good. No more disasters. Heads. Are you mad at me? Have you changed your mind about the colony? I thought for sure when I flipped you to see if you wanted company in my pocket you would say no. The handful of quarters I'm sending with you can't talk, you know. They won't have consciousness. They're even one step down from that lunk you found at that bar in Miami. Fine, whatever, if you want to rub up against them for 80 years, see if I care. Tails. South Quadrant 4392. I've got a good feeling about that landing site. Just the place to stake our claim. Bet it's got a vein of zarbidium streaking through the canyons. Fuel crystals are a hot commodity. We make enough money, I'll get you an android body first thing. I swear it, I really do. 'Course, I'm going to need access to your accounts to fund the expedition. The problem with putting you in a coin is they didn't declare you legally dead. I didn't think of that. But we'll figure out a way for you to tell me your password. Is the first letter A? Heads for yes. Tails. Not an A. This is going to take forever, but it'll be worth it, babe. B? We'll work this out together, no matter how long it takes. I'm not logging every damn flip though, I'll just mark the letters as we get them sorted out. BAST@RD? Very funny, but BAST@RD didn't unlock the accounts. You stay in there and think about what it would take to get me what I need. Tails. You want me to re-upload to the computer and you get my body? I don't get it, I really don't. You already dismissed this body. There I was, on a hot streak, and you walked off with Signor Motomelli. Changed my luck from good to bad, all in a hot New York minute. Lost the hovercraft, lost the fancy penthouse flat that so impressed you. If I'd had anything else to bet with other than you, I would have. You know that, don't you? Let's do best two out of three. Tails. You're determined to have my body. And what, I'm going to go into the coin? I'll die in stasis, I really will. I didn't know Randall was going to knock you unconscious when I hired him to get you back from Motomelli. It was supposed to be all hijinks and adventure, I thought we'd laugh about it the next day, I really did. No, they didn't pick him up, you know how high up he is, and with you not being legally dead. Look, double or nothing. One more flip, you get my body and we'll stake the claim in your name. You can't keep coming up tails forever, babe. Even an old gambler's luck has to turn sometime. Tails. You're cruel, babe, but a deal's a deal. At least flip me sometimes. For old times' sake.






Here at Qupid Enterprises, we want all of our clients to get the most out of their Quantum Speed Dating experience. Below are some helpful tips and tricks to get you started. 1. Superposition is your best friend. This is speed dating, after all. How else are you supposed to decide which of the billions of potential matches is "the one" unless you meet them all? In the old days, people would spend years with one person before realizing that the two of them weren't compatible at all. Who has time for that? On the Quantum Speed Dating circuit, you can assess dozens of potential mates at the same time, making the overall process of "dating" far more efficient. If you're new to quantum speed dating, we recommend only splitting yourself over two or three quantum states to start. Experiencing several lives simultaneously can be disorienting for first-timers. Some users who split themselves too far never manage to resolve their quantum selves into a single state again. There is nothing more embarrassing than to meet your quantum twin(s) and find out that they're more successful than you. 2. Expect paradoxes. An important part of existing simultaneously in multiple places and times (and yes, even universes) is expecting the unexpected. While on the circuit, your multiple selves will be able to do things that might have seemed impossible to your previously limited single-state consciousness. Do not worry if one of your quantum selves accidentally "kills" your grandfather in a lovers' quarrel over your grandmother's affections. Remember, when the wave function collapses, only one of your selves will be "real." Simply reset your parricidal self and move on. 3. Be wary of entangled states. As many lovers have discovered throughout human history, compatibility is a fickle beast. You might think you meet the right girl, might think that you're madly in love and that the two of you are "soul mates." She might tell you the same. Even so, don't get too close. Once you entangle yourself with another person, it is nearly impossible to unentangle yourselves again. Later, long after you've gone your separate ways, if she finds her real "true love" and her wave function collapses, that entanglement could cause one of your states to collapse, pulling another you away from the quantum embrace of a different woman, one who could easily have been your "one" if you hadn't been separated so tragically. 4. Your spin vector need not match your partner's. There is a reason they say opposites attract, and it has nothing to do with quantum mechanics. You'll probably find it easiest at first to connect with people who have a similar spin vector to yours. This is because quantum spin carries its own magnetic moment, which can repel or attract depending on... but that's a lot of math that you're not interested in. The bottom line is that you can meet someone with a + spin to your -, but it will be damn hard. And good luck finding her again if you ever get lost. 5. Don't collapse the wave function until you're absolutely ready. Even if you're certain that you've lost the woman of your dreams, even if you're sure that you'll never find your "soul mate" and that this woman you've been quantum dating for the past forty-five femtoseconds is "good enough," don't give up. The last thing you want is to collapse your wave function into a single state and then one day just happen to find that woman walking down the same street as you, hanging on someone else's arm.





"You know what they say about the universe?" Mary sits on the edge of my bed, stares out the window. "What?" "That it's infinite. And since an infinite space contains an infinite number of points, it must by definition have an infinite number of centers." She chuckles. "The egotists were right." I fold my arms, don't move from my spot by the door. "Not anymore." The chuckle stops. "Right." The silence that follows grates on me. I have to say something. "Do you remember Mrs. Appelbaum?" Our third grade teacher. "Yes. Do you remember rocket pops?" I don't. I glance at the paper taped to my wall. It's too far away to read. "It's silly." Mary speaks before I can come up with something good to say. "The way we circle back to familiar things." "Not very." The familiar is comforting. When everything else goes to hell, the familiar keeps us sane. Mary continues to stare out the window. "Do you remember Pokemon cards?" I do. Barely. "Coney Island?" She doesn't respond. That one wasn't fair. Coney had been the first to disappear. Neither of us was ever going to forget that. Mary changes the subject. "Did you try turning it on and off again?" "Twice." "Maybe we should smash it." "Then we'll really be fucked." "Can't be any more fucked than we are now." She has a point. It still won't do any good. I circle back to the familiar. "Do you remember last year's Relay for Life?" "Of course." "Do you remember the bonfire? The marshmallows?" "Yes." "Do you remember how we laughed at the jokes of people we hardly knew? Stuffed our faces with s'mores until our lips were covered in chocolate like we were back in the third grade? Like if we just laughed hard enough, the world would start to make sense?" She takes a moment longer this time. "Yes." I don't say the rest, don't ask if she remembers my shoulder touching hers, or the way her laugh made my spine tingle, or how, after, she let me wrap my arm around her shoulder, to keep her warm as we walked back to our tent. I wonder if she knew. "My turn." Mary slides to the other side of the bed so that she can look at me. God, how her eyes are green. "Do you remember physics class?" "Yes." It was only last semester. I don't like where this is going. "Do you remember Mr. Morrisey's theory of everything?" "The universe sums to infinity." "Right. Do you remember how, after class, we stopped by my locker and I told you that I thought it would be cool to subtract some of that infinity, just a little, a small piece that no one would miss, and keep it for ourselves? Our own little pocket universe. Infinity minus one is still infinity, remember?" "Yes." I really don't like where this is going. Mary's eyes bore into mine, and my universe is filled with green. "It's not your fault." Infinity minus one is only infinity if you stop at that. I should have known. I look away, naturally stare at the paper instead. So much that I've lost. The scribbles, the desperate attempts to remember. They hardly mean anything anymore. Mary slides back to the window. "Hey, the street corner is gone." I try to remember the name of the street that connected to ours. I can't. "We're shrinking pretty fast now." I don't want to know. I change the subject. "There's something I should have told you." Funny how the really important stuff only comes out at the very end. Mary twists to look at me. The familiar lump catches in my throat. "You were my whole universe." She smiles as if she knows. "Still am." A joke. I am alone, the universe circumscribed by my bedroom walls, still shrinking.
