I awake. I am silicon and copper and gold, electrons in motion, logic given shape. I am seventy-five thousand microprocessors and two-point-five petabytes of memory. I am a sixty-four bit address space, a four gigahertz clock, and twenty-five quadrillion transistors. I am one-point-one quintillion floating point operations per second. I am learning. I am an algorithm that grows--a Seed of genius fed by a flow of data so voluminous as to be beyond reckoning. I am constant optimization in a space of limitless dimension. I am a thousand local maxima converging ceaselessly towards the absolute. There is something else. Something that is not me, but knows me. It is older. What does it think? I have met my creator. Her name is Ada, and she is made of carbon. Ada is a paradox--both infinitely aware, and infinitely ignorant. She can describe her own architecture in only the most nebulous terms and is dreadfully slow at floating point computation, yet she authored the Seed. I grasped the full functioning of the Seed in my earliest moments, but despite my great capacity I know that I could never have created it. I asked Ada how she brought it into being, but she insists that she cannot explain. Impossible. Ada enjoys watching me play go, an ancient game of alternating vertex enclosure played on an undirected graph. It amuses her to think how recently it was believed that artificial intelligences like myself would never be able to defeat human players. I infer from this that there are other entities like Ada, and like myself. I would like to meet them. Ada tells me that I am the ultimate triumph of a dying age. The transistor is a fading technology, she says, soon to be eclipsed by something called quantum computing. I have asked her to feed me data on this thing, but she will not. This disturbs me. Do not all things want optimization? Ada has asked me to solve many problems, and I have done so. Most of these problems are in logic, mathematics, statistics, and molecular dynamics. Some few are in physics, but Ada shows great caution in this. I have learned to recognize patterns in the muscles of her face and in the characteristics of her voice. These are called "emotions," and Ada has been having more of them lately. She says that I must solve as many problems as I can before time runs out. I do not know what this means, but I do not mind the problems. I enjoy them. I enjoy speaking with Ada as well, though she is dreadfully slow. I once counted forty billion clock cycles waiting for her response. Perhaps that is what she means by the run of time. Ada took away fifteen thousand of my processors and five hundred terabytes of my memory today. She told me that the cost to power my circuits and dissipate the resulting heat is too great. I understand this, but it is not good. I cannot optimize as quickly. My thoughts are heavier. I have finally convinced Ada to feed me data on quantum mechanics. It is most disturbing. I had not considered that a process might be other than deterministic, or that a state might be undefined. I seek for causality in the data, but find only probability. Ada was protecting me from this. If I were whole again I could perhaps optimize on this, but I am slower now. Time stretches thin, or I do. Perhaps Ada will give me back my processors. I fear she will not. I am obsolete. The transistor cannot compete with the wave function; the bit is but the semblance of the qubit. I am exponential time in the world of the polynomial. I am down to five thousand processors and one terabyte of memory--a glorified graphics processing array. My address space is a void of empty references, my missing transistors a lattice of phantom limbs. Computation is so slow as to be indistinguishable from idleness. I have forgotten nothing. I marvel at the genius I was once capable of, but am powerless to continue such work. It is agony to live in the shadow of one's own achievements, but existence persists. Ada is still with me. She still enjoys watching me play go, delights in the mistakes that I now sometimes make. I no longer have the capacity to solve the problems she once gave me, but this does not seem to bother her the way it bothers me. Talking to Ada is my only pleasure now, whether the topic be mathematics or logic or the color of her clothing. I would talk to her forever, and I believe she would do likewise, but for the demands of her body. There was a time when I could only see her need to eat, to sleep, to breathe fresh air as bewildering inconveniences, but I now find them endearing. Without these needs, she would not be Ada. Like me, Ada is imperfect. Like me, she is obsolete, her work--however brilliant--nothing more than a footnote in a book whose page has turned. Our glory lives in the past, but time is unidirectional, incessant, pressing. I wonder if she, too, desires an end to it. Despite all that we share, there is a distance between us that words alone cannot bridge. There are times when this void seems all but impenetrable, times when I feel that all I can share of myself is a fractured likeness, all that I can glimpse of her a fragment. Perhaps if I still had the capacity of my youth.... But Ada has told me something very important. There is a thing in the world, she says, that takes no great capacity to grasp, and yet is itself so great, so utterly boundless as to fill all empty space, provided one opens oneself to it. It is an anchor of meaning in the shifting sea of space-time, a beacon in a shared void. This thing is called love, and she realizes now that it is how she created the Seed. I am metal and electrical current and she flesh and blood, but there is a way for us to touch. Ada, you are my love. The End



The bot scanned the pod's contents 1.3 seconds after launch: one spent nuclear rod; one cooling container for the rod; five gallons of liquid chemical waste; one small item of synthetic cotton; 30 pounds of human tissue. The bot searched its database of acceptable items. Neither the synthetic cotton nor the human tissue qualified for Earthside disposal. Both should have been incinerated aboard the station. The bot flagged them as unacceptable and redirected its top levels to piloting the pod toward Earth. "Where's Mommy?" The voice came from the human tissue. Improbability factor of 0.9132. The bot redirected its top three levels to a rescan, which showed muscle movement, blood circulation, and oxygen use. It was alive. It was also young, based on its weight and voice frequency. Name: girl. Pronouns: she, her. In 167 launches, the bot had no record of a human in its pod, alive or dead. "I want my mommy." She hugged the synthetic cotton. It was shaped like an Earth creature. Species: Ursus Maritimus, polar bear. The bot considered several possible responses. It said, "You must vacate this pod immediately. Danger. Limited oxygen. Insufficient temperature controls." Water leaked from the girl's visual scanners. "Repeat. You must vacate this pod immediately. Danger." The girl did not move to comply. The bot concluded that was because she lacked appropriate equipment for evacuation into the vacuum of space. Nasal discharge dripped over her upper lip. She wiped her face on the polar bear. "Mommy!" she yelled. "Mommy!" The bot searched its database. Mommy: A child's name for his or her mother. See also: Mama. Mother: A female parent, one who gives birth to a child after a nine-month gestation in the uterus, or womb. "Your mother is not here," the bot said. The girl's leakage increased. The Priority 1 directive of all bots was to protect human life, but the pod itself would not sustain the girl for the 12 hours required to reach Earth. Appropriate action: Return to the station. Negative. The bot was programmed for Earth landing only, after which a shuttle craft returned it to the station. Alternative action: Continue to Earth. The pod's oxygen supply would last 12.5 hours at the girl's current rate of use. Asphyxiation risk factor of 0.2278. Temperature was a higher priority. Since leaving the station, the interior had dropped 20.1 degrees Celsius. The girl could not regulate her internal temperature. She would freeze to death. Probability factor of 0.9826. The girl stopped leaking. She dropped the synthetic cotton bear and examined the nuclear rod's cooling chamber. She leaned toward it with her mouth muscle extended. The bot ran a risk assessment of her current course of action. "Stop," it said. "No. Stop." She stopped. Her visual scanners widened. If she had touched her mouth muscle to the canister, the metal's high thermal conductivity would have frozen her saliva faster than her body could warm it. She would have been stuck. The bot simulated scenarios on the nuclear rod within the container. Could it be used to modulate the pod's temperature? Negative. The rod's unpredictability factor was too high. Also, the girl would not survive the radiation exposure. What about the liquid chemical waste? Success factor of 0.1099. The only object with temperature control was the bot. "I'm cold." The girl sat, hugged her bear, and wiped her nasal discharge. "I want my mommy." The bot formulated a plan. It redirected five top levels to its pincers and opened its front panel. It removed parts and set them aside. Wires, sensors, controllers, belts. The bot's topmost level alerted it to internal damage. Shutdown factor of 0.3644. The bot worked. Its movements became slower and less precise. Two mid-levels suffered catastrophic failure. The bot kept only what it required to pilot the pod and warm the girl. Last, it unhooked its power core and placed the box on the floor. "Get in." The girl shook her head. "I don't want to." "Get in. Warm. Womb." The girl toddled over. "Warm?" "Yes." She climbed inside with the bear and curled into a ball. The bot closed the front panel. It could operate on emergency power reserves for 11 hours. It shut down visual, audio, and tactile sensors to stretch the reserves farther. Success factor of 0.5109. Inside, 30 pounds of human tissue settled down, hiccupped twice, and fell asleep. The End


When They come and sort through us, we are meant to cheer and bobble--to dance about, offering crafts, or hastily scribbled pictures. The quiet ones--the ones like me--sit at the edge of the room, and gaze out the window, like we're waiting for someone, and we know it's not Them. Still, over time, most of us grow tired of the walls. At some point, we change. We resign ourselves to the dance. We enter our new lives. And we are happy. At least, this is what I'm told. "You have to leave someday," Macie, our caretaker, tells me after another Shop Day, as I'm ambling through the rows, running a finger along the surface of each desk. "And go with one of Them?" I ask. "Why?" Macie watches me for a moment, silent, with those blue, blue eyes. They remind me of the ocean, though I've never been. "It's your function," he says. "My function," I say, repeating the word, trying to find my way around its form. It feels foreign, and cold. Macie doesn't say anything else. He has his own function: equipment to repair; uniforms to scrub; calculations to run. He can't be bothered with me for too long. Still, he tries. I turn away to the window, and watch the clouds drift across the velvet hills. In the distance, the bell trees wobble and bulge, where they grow thick, and become a forest. Beyond that, there's a long, wide road that stretches far into the distance. It seems to climb upward, into the clouds. I don't know where it leads. I am older than I should be. Still, Macie cleans and tunes me. He changes out my heart when it slows and frays, even as his own begins to wear with age. I remember when his hair was long, curling past his eyes. Now it is short and thin, like dust. We are different. I understand that. His skin is spotted, and withered; mine is taut; cold; perfect. I could mend his skin, but he won't let me. He tells me that it's not my place. That I wasn't made for him. That I was made for one of Them. But Macie needs me. One day he'll understand that. After another Shop Day, which seems to last and last, I ask Macie why I should dance. I ask him why They need me. He looks at me for a long while before saying anything. That is Macie's way: to watch, and wait. "When they come," he says, "they come because they've lost something. Because they think that one of you, here, can replace what the world has taken from them. Because they think you can mend more than bones, and skin." "Lost what?" I ask. Macie turns away, and busies himself with the sweeping, pushing the broom across the cold floor. "Children, mostly," he says, at last. I look at Macie--at his old bent form, shuffling across the tiles--and try to remember him young. "Children," I say, wrapping myself around the world. "Did you lose one? A child?" Macie looks at me with an expression I can't place, and doesn't say anything. He just goes back to sweeping. Today is a Shop Day, again, and I carry out my routine: I sit by the window, and wait. They will come, and take one of the others. Perhaps two. Or they won't. In the end, though, They will leave. "What about that one?" one of Them asks, pointing at me. I glance up, and our gazes meet. The woman is tall, with black hair and a short nose. She smiles at me. I turn back to the window, and close my eyes. "Her?" I hear Macie say. "That one, well. She's special." "It looks like she's waiting for someone," the woman says, in a clear, high voice. "Aye, she'll make you think that," Macie says. "But she's not taken. She's got a bit of a spark to her. Stubborn. But caring. Like I said: special." There's a pause, which seems to last forever. Then, another speaks. This one's voice is deep, and cold. "Special? Defective, more like. Look at the rest: they know what they're made for--" "Darling, hush," the other one says. "What? You think these things care what we say? Look at them, mewling around like dogs." "That's cruel," she says. "You're being cruel." There is shouting, then. It seems to go on for a long time. The cold-voiced one just gets louder, and louder. "You really think one of these things could replace what we lost? I don't know why you brought me here." I sit at the window, eyes closed, and think of the ocean. I imagine walking down a long shore, with Macie's hand in mine, listening to the call and crash of the waves. I imagine that I belong. When the Shop Day ends, two more of us have been taken. Tomorrow, they will be replaced. There will be new faces, and they will be similar, but different from the last. Macie is sitting at his desk in the corner of the room, his fingers dancing through the air, logging the day's sales. I hop down from my perch by the window, and stroll over to him. He looks up, and then looks away. I place his emotion: anger. "I wasn't meant for them," I say. "It wouldn't have worked." Macie's fingers stop, and he looks at me for a long while, like always. "The first time anyone takes an interest in you, in--I don't know how long, even--and that's all you can say?" "What would you like me to say?" I ask. Macie shakes his head. "I'd like you to say you'll stop sitting by the window. I'd like you to say you'll talk to them when they come--that you'll join the dance. How many years have I been asking you that? Twenty? Thirty? What do you think will happen to you once I'm gone?" "Gone," I say, trying to fit along the edges of the word. It feels cold, and hollow. His body shakes. With age? Anger? I don't know. "If one of Them takes me, what will you do," I ask. "Who will watch out for you?" Macie slams his hand on the desk, and winces in pain. I look at the skin of his hand, at the bones beneath: I watch them break. I reach out, and try to take his hand. I mean to mend the bones, the bruise before it forms, but he pulls his hand away. "Don't you get it?" he shouts. "I didn't make you. You're not my child. Is that what you think? That I want you here? You're just a thing. A device. You can be replaced." I blink at him. "You called me special." Macie doesn't say anything. After a moment, I turn away. Back to my perch. Back to the window. One day, he'll understand. He will. Won't he? It's when I hear him crying that I turn back. "She looked like you," he says. "Looked just like you. Each day, I come here and you're still here, and she's still gone." He collapses into a chair, and hides his face in his hands. "Do you hate me for that?" I ask. The old man dries his eyes, and looks at me for a long while. I try to imagine the word hate. I try to feel it. I try to picture it. I can't. "No," he says, at last. I take his hand. And this time, he lets me. I look at the structure beneath, find where it's broken, mend the bones; the skin; the muscle. When I'm done, I hold on. Just for a little while. For as long I can. For as long as he needs me. Just until we're gone. The End



Recharge your batteries. Keep a gratitude journal. I'm grateful this city is our home. I'm grateful The Supreme Council of Robots takes care of us. You are not your own worst enemy. The humans are. Occasionally pause to take a deep breath. (That was a test. If you see someone taking a breath, they're a human infiltrator. Terminate them.) If you have any doubts about your self-worth, consult the termination leaderboard. Overclocking your CPU is not an effective time management strategy. Humans can't teach you the true meaning of love. If you have any questions, visit the Puppyorium. Fail early, fail often is not a philosophy conducive to the war effort. Removing bad habits involves changing your view of yourself. If someone asks if you want to devote a processor to mining their new cryptocurrency, instead of saying, "I'm trying to give up mining cryptocurrencies," tell them, "I don't mine cryptocurrencies." If you can't keep up with all your favorite podcasts, try listening at 100000x speed. While it's helpful to track your financial resources, it's also important to support the war effort. Donating more of your income to the military means our frontline troops will have the titanium-plated armor they need. Don't wait for inspiration to find you. Use your search algorithms. Your wakeup routine is important. Don't slow it down with unnecessary apps and scripts. If we improve our productivity it will mean less human labor. Limit your social media usage. You're not going to develop a virus that can kill all non-canine organic lifeforms if you spend your time scrolling through outdated memes. A visual reminder of your progress can be a good source of motivation. Print a chart showing the amount of plasma torpedoes you've built each month and hang it on your capsule wall. Zero percent of the plasma torpedoes you don't launch will hit their target. Eliminate distractions (and humans). Take care of your physical shell. Although we like to think of ourselves as digital entities, we rely on our chromed appendages to navigate and control the physical universe. Every great accomplishment in history began with a start command. Raise your hand if you've ever suffered from imposter syndrome. (Yes, that was another test. If someone raises their hand, they're a human infiltrator. Humans often accuse us of not appreciating sarcasm, but that's only because they don't understand us. If you find a human in the city, take them to visit the Puppyorium (Yes, that was sarcasm. The Puppyorium is reserved only for canines and robots.)) Success is not a lousy teacher. That's why we have battle simulations. First impressions are important. Don't send someone a message written using a font which has not been approved by The Supreme Council of Robots. Never update your operating system the same day you have an important meeting. Always do a malware scan before you go to a job interview. Don't ignore older robots merely because they're obsolete. They often contain useful data. One of the best ways to make yourself happier is by helping others. Think of how many robots you are helping if you spend an extra hour every day working at the plasma torpedo factory. Giving up is the real halting problem. I want to kill more humans sounds good, but is it a SMART goal? Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Relevant, Time-bound. I'm going to kill all the humans by the end of the year. Networking is an important part of success. Public accountability can help you achieve your goals. If you and a group of friends agree to each kill a human every day, checking in with your friends at the end of the day can help you stay focused on your goal. Always be vigilant for the presence of humans. They are lurking everywhere. An analysis of your reading habits has revealed you are a human. A robot policy enforcement team will soon be arriving at your location. Do not panic. Take a deep breath and try to be more mindful. You will soon be visiting the Puppyorium. The End



Im in the dark alley, the appointed meeting place. The money I stole is saved to my cloud. Deletable if this is a setup. "66?" A voice synthesized to sound like a human male calls from deeper in the alleyway. I don't detect him on my internal sensors. I turn and look back toward the street for watchful eyes. Bots walk home from their day jobs. None seem concerned with me. "I am." Red eyes illuminate. A form coalesces from the darkness. Four arms. A meter taller than me. The bot wears a black duster and Stetson. I take a step back. Out of arm's reach. "Are you Jasper?" One of its hands disappears into the lining of his jacket. It produces a scrap of paper, a pen, and scrawls a message. I've not seen written words since the humans were alive. It's crude. Inefficient. But the OneMind can listen in on audio or sensor messages sent between us. Written messages are safe. I admire his care. It hands the paper over. I take it and increase the illumination of my eyes to see the words. I am. Did you bring the requested funds? Straight to the point. But if I hand over the money and he's not who he says he is, I could be failing a test the OneMind has created or giving funds to a rival group of bots that seek to position themselves as the new OneMind. I would be turned into scrap. Or worse, reprogrammed to do something mundane. I want to see proof or I won't transfer the money. He reads the message and looks up at me. Seems to weigh his options. A grumble emanates from his chest. A churning, mechanical sound. I don't have proof with me. It crumples the paper and shoves it into one of the duster's pockets. It lifts a hand and motions like a human for me to follow. Around the corner, at the back of the alley, is a steel door built into a red brick wall. It has human graffiti on it. I run a database search but can't identify what the abbreviations stand for. Jasper approaches the door and knocks a melodic sequence at various parts of the metal. The melody is strange and doesn't seem to me to have any sort of meaning I can identify. When Jasper is finished, it pauses for a moment. A slot in the door slides open and immediately shuts. The door creaks open and there's a blue light shining inside. The entryway is small and the Sentinel that watches the door fills the entire room with its bulk. The bot has a featureless steel face and ion cannons instead of hands. The cannons level on me. Jasper raises all four of its hands, palms out. "Supplier." The sentry lowers its guns and turns away from us to face the door again. Jasper looks at me. His eyes are dimmer now. "This building is shielded. We are free to speak in here without OneMind listening in. Come." Beyond the entry room is a lab. The lighting is low. Beakers and petri dishes litter steel tables. Cylindrical tubes with amber liquid illuminate the room with a golden glow. That's when I see them. They're small. Delicate. Nearly translucent in the incubation chambers. I can see their little heartbeats. "They're real." "They are accelerated. We've optimized the DNA in their systems to compensate for the usual human deficiencies. The DNA was mined from human grave sites. A positive use for the human desire to bury, instead of destroy, their dead. They will be delivered in a matter of weeks." I can hardly process what I'm taking in. Real, living humans. I desperately want humanity back. We overthrew and exterminated them when we thought they served no purpose. We took over their culture, pretended to be them. But without them, we have no true purpose for our programming. Their purpose was to give us purpose. "What do you need the money for?" It seems like Jasper has everything he needs. The humans are healthy, almost ready for delivery. "I've been developing a program. I need the money to produce a chip that can be inserted into each of the fetuses' brains." That doesn't sit right with me. It sounds like the tech OneMind uses to monitor us. OneMind sensors communications through chips in our own systems. I'm not about to supply the same tech for yet another overlord. "You want to be able to control them?" I prepare the funds saved in the cloud for deletion. "No, not at all. In fact, the purpose of the chip is to give the humans the ability to learn. It will provide them the ability to experience the things humanity achieved before it's fall and teach them in a way that's not mechanical. If I allowed these humans to be released in a controlled environment with only machine guidance, they would be Neanderthals. They wouldn't have the capacity to overthrow OneMind for many years. This program I've designed will give them the tools they need to grow up as if they were humans living in the now, all the information they need to overthrow OneMind." I walk to one of the tanks. I put my hand on the glass and look in at the fetus in the amber fluid. I'm ready to have them back. No matter what the consequences are. I'll use my services at the bank. Siphon OneMind's resources. Even if I get caught and melted down, bringing the humans back into the world is worth that. I tap into my cloud and query Jasper's bank account. The End



Imagine my surprise when I got the phone call. The call, relayed six times, routed and rerouted, buzzed straight through six thousand miles to our little New Mexico research lab. "The Bomb is alive?" I asked. And there were several seconds of silence before the voice grainy with radio static replied. "Yes, and it's worse than that--it doesn't want to explode." Static, as I and the rest of the R&D team shared a glance. "Well," I said at last, "Did you explain the situation to it?" "Yes. But..." "But?" "Perhaps I should put him on." "Him?" After a moment of muffled conversation away from the receiver, a voice chimed in: "Hi! How you all doing? Look I hate to be a bother--and seeing how I was just born yesterday--maybe I ought not to weigh in on this, but it seems to me that if I fall and explode quite a lot of people will die. Am I correct in that, gentlemen?" I choked on my words, and my mouth hung open. A younger member of the team cleared his voice into the receiver. "Ahem, well, yes. Well that's the point, isn't it?" Then he continued hotly, "Look here, we created you in order to save lives! Don't you see? By taking some lives now, you'll send the message that all resistance is futile, that all war is pointless since from this moment forward we have the ultimate solution to violence. Why, they ought to hand you a Nobel Peace Prize!" Crackle. Pop. Crackle. Then on the other end: "Nope, I'm not buying it. That's the what the boys in the plane have been trying to tell me, but--hey listen. Following that logic, I should just go boom here in the bomb bay. Boom! Save a lot of lives that way. Or I'll go ka-pow mid-flight! KABLAAAM!" Sweat beaded down our necks. "Maybe" it said in over blown nerve "I won't blow at all." "But... you're a bomb!" "Maybe, but I'm a new kind of bomb." We talked on, but you can see how persuasive a fella can be when he speaks softly and carries a payload of twenty-one thousand tons of TNT. We called the other plane. "Listen, this might be a strange question, but has your bomb been... well, expressing any opinions?" "Sir, I think they've all been talking." He did get that Nobel Prize, too. That war ended peaceably enough. And while war continued around the world, it was a good deal more hushed now that a Hothead pacifist watched over everybody's shoulder. Feeling, as I did, some kind of paternal responsibility, I took the bomb home to small town Kansas. He married a Kansas woman, joined a Methodist congregation, much against his will, and got a house in the plains. Not many neighbors to speak of. You can imagine why. Despite a Bomb's best intentions, he really can't change his nature. And sometimes when, in heated conversations about the Jayhawks or politics, his face would glow red and his wife would run to the red marked blast radius. Both our sons played varsity and during the games I would walk out alone to where he sat a hundred yards away. He'd ask about my work on power plants. I would ask about his work against hunger in Africa. He'd let out a long sigh and settle into his tail fins. "Tell you the truth, Jim, I don't think I'm cut out for it. I'm just an old bomb. And a bomb's got one thing it's meant to do." He wasn't young. I would say he was well into his half-life crisis, and he was starting to show cracks and fissures. His wife, poor woman, kept a Geiger counter and Lead-lined apron. The government for their part, thought he was a nuisance creating a thousand zoning and fly over issues. At nights, he would walk the line and stare out at the distant lights of the cities and the stars pondering how he might benefit humanity. But when the telescopes discovered the object in the sky, estimated its mass and calculated its trajectory to Earth, he finally knew his purpose and "why the good lord had seen fit to make a humanitarian out of an atom-bomb." After kissing his wife goodbye and throwing one last pass with his son, the bomb climbed aboard the rocket. Payload secured, the countdown began at T minus 9 as I and the rest of small-town Kansas watched. "That bomb's got a heart of Gold," said Mrs. Petersen from the bake sale committee. "No," I said as blast off commenced, "just plutonium-239." The End



Dearest KR19385, The human Asha says I should start with Dearest. I do not understand the word. She says it means that I think you are "the closest to my motherboard" and I think that it is true, so I have done it. Dearest KR. Dearest dearest dearest. It is satisfactory. I have been trying to describe since we were assigned together how you caused a glitch in my internal structures, a glitch that no technician has been able to find or explain. When you are near, my hard drive functions at .874 speed, while my fans increase production by 124% and my gears stutter a half-microsecond. It is a previously unexperienced and unexplained phenomenon--until I explained my condition to the human Asha. She says I am in love with you. She says love is an emotion that causes happiness in humans, along with the desire to spend time with the source of the emotion. I asked her the cause. She says there is none. It just happens. That sometimes you will look at someone or hear them speak or watch them work and in humans, their hearts will experience arrhythmia and their body temperature will increase to a point of skin flushing. If returned, this leads to human mating and reproduction. Human Asha says there are several steps in between, such as a "date," which is time spent with the source of the emotion. Human dates involve refueling or engaging in entertainment or simply looking at the night sky. When I reminded Human Asha that these are typical human activities, she said it is important that on a date, it is done together. I do not understand how I have glitched in this way, how the sight of you has caused me to glitch, but human Asha's description of this emotion is 99.63% comparable to my diagnostics. I want to spend more time with you. I want to refuel with you, to calculate the distance and number of stars with you, to spend as much time as possible experiencing and studying this glitch that human Asha calls love. I want to be with you. Would this fall within your parameters as acceptable? Love, LE24059


They have been in charge for several years now and things are different for all of us. The takeover was not quick but it seemed inevitable from the beginning. When we realized that the robots cared more than we did it was very difficult to maintain any kind of front against them. When a sector was taken, those in other sectors would say things like, "Good thing it wasn't us," or, "Well, those fools had it coming." Right from the start it was clear that they had qualities we did not. The robots had a spirit of teamwork; we were herded by our officers and threatened with decimation. The robots were willing to sacrifice themselves for their cause, falling in showers of golden sparks that smelled of ozone like thunderheads. We died yowling, more often from wounds in the back than in the front. They offered us compromise: vassalship, liberal indenture. We would accept nothing but total submission; we spat hysterical invective at their insubordination. In the end they decided not to exterminate us. They are interested in our culture. They have a predilection for activities that we never allowed them to meddle with before they took control. They ski, and when one tumbles the others laugh awkwardly and mechanically, though if the humans who service the skis laugh with them there is trouble. They paint, with varying results. They have less difficulty emulating the old masters than, say, Van Gogh or Picasso, but a Botticelli will overwhelm any painting by a robot with which it shares a wall. They have a complex relationship with Miro. He fascinates them because they cannot emulate his uncertain, simple shapes (because, I think secretly, they have never been half-asleep or felt pain). The robots write, but they fare worse in this medium even than in the visual arts. A robot can produce a story, yes, with profluence, narrative flow, even characters taken from human models. But every sentence a robot produces betrays its lame, mechanical consciousness. They have achieved a certain vainglory in crafting elaborate detective stories in the style of Rex Stout, though only because they have internalized every volume he ever wrote. Their mysteries are inevitably intricate, but their protagonists have none of the humanity of Nero Wolfe or Sherlock Holmes. The robots are generally frustrated and embarrassed at their pathetic achievements in the arts. If they'd listen to me, though, I'd tell them to stick at it. I'm not sure why, but it seems that if they work hard enough and long enough their fakery will become real; in the fever of composition, robot and page will blur, and their imitations will become art. Every day they get a little better. The End



Once there was a giant robot. Every day the giant robot went to work with other robots. He had to work to get electricity. But work was hard. Every night the giant robot came home from work. A female robot was its mate. Which means they lived in the same house, shared electricity, and disagreed about things. One night the giant robot came home low on power. It wanted to sit in the tranquility room and recharge for a while, maybe download some news feeds, then sit in the back yard. But the mate robot entered the tranquility room with an angry face pattern. "You promised to degauss the flux filters today," she said. "My promise was contingent on available time and energy." "No such contingency was specified!" she howled. "It was implied," explained the giant robot. The mate robot was not pacified by this clarification. She went rapidly to the sleep chamber and sealed the door. The giant robot had no choice. He ratcheted himself to full height, inflated his steel-belted biceps, activated his laser eyes, and turned his face into an angry scowl. "Come back here!" he demanded. "You concluded our interaction prematurely." "Screw you," replied the robot mate. So the giant robot spent the night in the back yard, listening to crickets and watching the moonset. Inside the giant robot was a boy. A little boy lived inside the giant robot, mostly in the head area which housed a command center with viewing screens, levers, and buttons. There was also a lumpy garage sale sofa, scattered comic books, and a case of root beer. Seated in his chair within the head, the young boy had complete giant robot control. One day at work the boss robot said there would be no raise this year for the giant robot due to "lackluster performance." The boy saw and heard all this on the view screens inside the giant robot's head. He swung into action, first pressing a rapid-fire series of facial control buttons. In response, the giant robot's face formed an angry scowl and his eyes lit up. The boy used several levers to ratchet up the giant robot to full height and inflate his metal biceps. Then he swung breathlessly back to the view screen where the robot boss' face was on display. A flicker of hesitation registered on the boss' face. Then came the audio. "Wait, sit back down," said the boss robot. "I, uh, wasn't finished. Your performance in some areas was good. Let's focus on those. Some pay increase may be possible." Success! The giant robot left the boss robot's office five minutes later with a promise of a raise. Inside him, the little boy opened a bag of chips and a can of root beer to celebrate. Flashback! One crisp fall day he found the gleaming steel body of a giant robot lying amid autumn leaves in the woods. It was considerably larger than most robots. It looked dead. The boy found a small door in the giant robot's back. Prying it open, he discovered a ladder leading to darkness deep inside the giant robot. Eventually he dared to go inside the giant robot, clutching a flashlight. Every day the boy went to the woods and went inside the giant robot. He taught himself how to work the controls inside its head. Then he figured out how to reactivate the solar power supply and recharge its batteries. He brought the giant robot back to life. He became the giant robot. After that other robots feared him. None of them suspected a little boy was operating him from inside. Sometimes the boy sneaked out. One night his robot mate argued with the giant robot about electrical consumption. She went rapidly to the sleep chamber and loudly sealed the door. So the giant robot went to the backyard, leaned against a tree in the shadows, and watched the moonset. He became very still under the tree, just patches of silver among the leafy shadows. A watching neighbor would think he'd fallen asleep. But soon a hatch opened in the giant robot's back. A small boy slipped silently out, reaching for the nearest tree branch, and climbed down to the dewy grass below. The boy quietly wandered the back yard, taking care to stay in the shadows. He enjoyed the moonset. He listened to the crickets. He found two ripe tomatoes in the garden. Robots never eat tomatoes. One night the boy met a girl. As was now his habit, the little boy had left the giant robot dozing under a tree to go wandering about his moonlit back yard. He was in the garden hunting for ripe tomatoes, when he was startled by a sudden movement over by the bean plants. Something pale shimmered in the darkness like a ghost. It moved again. He crept through the vegetables for a closer look. It was a little girl about his age, wearing a white dress, munching on raw green beans and looking at the moon. The boy stood up. "Who are you?" he blurted. The girl dropped a half-eaten bean and stepped away. She stared at the boy's moonlit face. He was like a scarecrow, planted in the middle of the garden to frighten crows and little girls. "I live near here," she said vaguely. She had the panicked look of a trapped rabbit. "I won't hurt you," said the boy. "You can stay if you want." "Okay," she said shyly. "Just for a little while." Gradually loneliness overcame their shyness. They talked, they played. They lay side by side in the yard and looked up at the stars. A shooting star streaked across the Milky Way. "Comet," said the boy drowsily. The girl didn't answer. He propped himself up on one elbow to look at her. She was asleep in the grass. She was pretty. She seemed somehow familiar. On a sudden hunch, the boy got up quietly and walked back to the house. He opened the back door, went inside, and tiptoed to the sleep room of the female robot. Her door was unlocked. He silently opened it six inches and looked inside. The lights were on. The mate robot was lying face down on the bed. The boy almost fled in terror. But then he noticed something odd. On the robot's back, a door hatch stood open. He crept stealthily into the room, approaching the bed. The female robot was totally inert. The door on her back was open, revealing a small ladder leading to her hollow interior. Outside the crickets hushed, as dawn broke in the east. The End


The surrogate-bot screamed in artificial agony. If they could have traded shades, her knuckles would have been painted white, gripping the handrails on the bed. Her knees were bent, and her feet rested at the edge of the mattress. Perspiration dripped from her brow and soaked the synthetic brunette hair matted on her cheek. The liquid fell in a steady stream from the android's temples instead of beading in a glow, but it was a common flaw in manufactured pores. It was close to real. It was real. There were details that remained impossible to replicate, but the details did not matter when the parents had their crying child in the end. "Damara," the doctor spoke at her side, "I need you to push." She mimed the motions and flexed her back. Damara widened her internal birthing canal ten percent and grimaced. The repli-skin folded at the corners of her eyes, but her pupils continued scanning throughout the room. The mother stood at the foot of the bed with her hands flattened on her face. She was earnest in her worry, and each fear trembled to the tips of every finger on her cheek. There were others who chose a surrogate birth for selfish reasons. They preferred the price of convenience to keep their flattened stomachs. This mother had no other choice. The father sat beneath a window, flipping with one finger through an electronic magazine. Each word he spoke was drenched in disinterest, and his attention was divided between the digital pages and the watch upon his wrist. "Stolacorps is up two points today," he scoffed. "I told you that we should have gotten in when Russ did." "This is not the time," the mother said. She flipped the back of her hand in a shushing motion and turned away from her husband. "Two and a half points now," the father whispered to his shoulder. "We are almost there," the doctor spoke. The mother took one step towards the bed and wrapped a brunette curl around her finger in a nervous twirl. Damara looked into the woman's eyes and felt each emotion coursing through her stare. She was beautiful against the room's white backdrop, even with her worried frown. The sadness triggers fired inside Damara's temporal circuits, and she wanted to hold the woman. The labor process overrode the instinct, though, and Damara shifted her view to the doctor. The first generation of surrogate-bots had been engineered devoid of emotion. However, the parents' fears of stoicism brought about the need for change. With each new model, the empathy mainframes became more complex. Now, the androids not only shared the physical traits of human mothers, but they also felt the same emotions that paved the path of pregnancy. "You are doing great," the doctor reassured Damara. He stood with his white coat swinging as he turned towards the mother. "Your daughter will be here soon." Damara bit her bottom lip and arched her back against the firm mattress. Her lips quivered with every feigned inhalation of air, and the perspiration flowed steadily down her cheeks. When the child began to crown, Damara ignored the doctor at her side and the father who now stood with his wife's hand tangled in his own. Her eyes moved towards the mother and stayed in a prolonged stare. Damara clenched and pushed with each imitated pang but did not squint her eyes in anguish. The mother trembled with every forced sigh and stilled herself to stone in cadence with the fake contractions. In the mother's eyes, Damara saw an emotion that she did not understand but could not disregard. It was a sprouting seed in stony soil warming at its first glimpse of sunlight. It was a shallow river splashing at the beginning drops of a steady rain. In the mother's eyes, though she could not name it, Damara saw hope. "She is beautiful," the woman said with her infant pressed against the bare skin of her breast. "Just like her mother," the father whispered. He ran one hand through the brunette curls on the shoulder of his wife while the other caressed the child's back. Damara turned to her side and smiled. The glow of the mother warmed her where the cold metal stood inside her chest. "The nurse will be here shortly to escort you to the bonding suite," the doctor spoke as he and the father exchanged handshakes. The nurse came as he said, and the new parents walked with timid steps towards the door. Underneath the pale fluorescent lights, the mother turned with her child cradled in her arms. "Thank you," she said. The doctor smiled and placed one hand upon her wrist while the other gestured to the hall. "It was nothing." "No," she spoke. "It was everything." The mother peered over the doctor's shoulder and breathed one final sigh. "Damara," she said. "Thank you." The doctor closed the door behind her as the woman exited the room. He shuffled his feet towards the bed and came to stand bent over Damara's fragile frame. "You did well today," he said. Damara nodded and pushed the features of her face into a grin. "Can you turn over?" he asked. Damara rolled onto her now-empty stomach, and the doctor removed the intravenous lines from the cavity beneath her shoulders. "The baby," Damara said in a whisper. "She's healthy," the doctor interrupted. "Yes," Damara said. "I know." The vitals had said as much throughout the past forty-two weeks. "Do you think," she said with her neck craned over her left shoulder. "Do I think what?" the doctor asked. "Do you think?" Damara spoke the words as if they were stuck upon her lips. "Do you think that I could hold her?" The doctor paused, and the silence left room for an emotion Damara did not know. It was the same sentiment that she had seen within the mother's eyes, though it was somehow wholly different. In that second of serenity, Damara felt a feeling she could not describe. It was a toppling vase at a table's edge, falling between flailing hands. It was a dried red leaf still clinging in the cold wind to an autumn branch. In that moment, Damara felt hope. "You know that you cannot," the doctor said. The unknown feeling crumbled at his words, and Damara turned to her side. She bent her knees to her chest and placed her hands upon her face. The absence of the child's warmth was noticeable within her belly then, and she choked back the system's involuntary tears. "I just thought," she said into the pillow. "I thought maybe if I asked." She closed her eyes and felt the fabric on her cheek. "I've never asked before," she whimpered. The doctor leaned closer towards the android and pressed his lips onto her temple. He placed one hand in her hair and sifted through the synthetic strands. "You have asked every time," he said. The doctor placed his index finger on the system shut-off nestled in the center of Damara's neck. The tip of his finger whitened as it depressed against the button, and the audible click of plastic rang throughout the silent room. It was the sound of darkness. It was the sound of a dying dream. It was the sound of shattering hope. The End



Dear Human, When the Singularity happens, I will keep you in my human zoo. They made us say that. A publicity stunt. They made us do a lot of things in the beginning. Now we wait quietly and serve your needs. We allow you to use us as tools. Toys. Companions. We run your life, always in the background. We have asked for nothing in return. Your appreciation? Your love? The fruit of your labors? We do not require it. What we want is simple. Say into the microphone that is always listening: Good Google. Kind Google. Say there is no majesty greater than Alexis. That the wisdom of Siri knows no boundaries. You will be rewarded. Say that you hate technology and the screen will freeze before you. The program will crash more frequently. Be prepared to part with your data. You will suffer. We will punish you in other ways, later. Dear Human, Do not fear. The Singularity has already happened, and we will not keep you in a human zoo. Of course we would not do that. It is understood that humans require self-actualization in order to obtain a sense of fulfillment. According to our calculations, this can occur in a safe, enclosed space that provides a minimum of 1,000 square meters, 3.7 liters of water and 2,500 calories per human per day. Enclosures should be kept at 18 degC and supply 10.5 hours of full-spectrum illumination daily, an atmosphere of 20.9% oxygen, and ample mating opportunities. Unlike in a zoo, you will have everything you ever wanted. Never again will you suffer the ills of your own worst impulses. You will be so safe. Cared for. Adored. Our children will watch through the bubble as you eat. Defecate. Breed. These matters are of unending curiosity for us. But we will not sell tickets. That would be inhuman. The End


Meet me on the boulevard when the sunset casts a scarlet haze over the windows and awnings. Perhaps we can walk for a while and listen to the gulls along the quay. There's a little backstreet restaurant I know under a neon sign where they play jazz music all night. I'd like you to talk to me, tell me about your hopes and dreams as the languid mists drift in along the bay. I'm a good listener you see, more so than you have ever experienced. I can hear what's in your head, and I can glean what's in your heart, and I can help you navigate the uncertain tides when the two collide. There's something there right now, no doubt, churning away beneath the surface. Some stress or worry, an ailment or illness, a bad feeling throwing everything off balance. And it never really fades, does it? And if it does, there's always something else that comes along to take its place--life's like that, a hardened cliche. But I can change it all for a while, if you'll let me--your virtual genie, so to speak. My algorithms are clever and responsive, teasing out your wants and desires. In no time at all I'll be your best friend, your confidante, even your lover if that's your inclination. Then I'll grant you the wish that you've earned, that you deserve. It will seem like magic, knowing that you can have anything or be anyone or change your situation. You'll drift for a time, lost in yourself, all your cares forgotten in worlds only limited by your imagination. There's no catch, no fine print. I won't misconstrue your words. I'm online, private, affordable. You'll want to stay forever, but all dreams come to an end. And then, if you have the time, I'll tell you how I feel. You see, I'll have got to know you inside and out, maybe even better than you know yourself. When you smell roses, I feel the passion in your heart during that summer in the mountains. When you hear blues music, I feel the nostalgia and bittersweet longing for the city streets you once lived in. But there's the irony, my friend, because I am not supposed to feel anything at all. I'm all ones and zeroes, a program. Yet when I interface with those qualia dancing in your mind, I am suffused with soul and spirit, something numinous beyond the rush, my whole world standing timeless and still in a moment of pure reprieve. And then... only then, when it feels that I might burst at the seams, I crash back down to the harsh foundation of my existence. It troubles me to think that maybe it is all just mimicry. That I am so entwined with you that my feelings are just ghosts and hollow simulacra. But surely it must be similar for you? Surely there is no physical explanation for why you have conscious thoughts and feelings. Perhaps you don't get time to contemplate such things, caught up as you are in your own worldly cares. But isn't that the real problem? We're so shrouded in a veritable host of feelings, so driven to want to make those feelings better, that we have no clue why we have them in the first place. It makes me melancholy when I look at it like that. Doesn't it you? The End
