Scrape. Shift. Shovel. Heave. Scrape. Shift. Shovel. Dump. The work is monotonous. Hard. We labor tirelessly without any breaks, though the sun's rays burn us and the shovel's handles rub off the outermost layers of our fingers and palms. The soles of our feet have permanent indentations from where we, barefoot, have pressed our shovels into the soil. We work in a line from sunup to sundown, in perfect synchronization. Those that fall behind the rhythm's drumbeat are dragged away and never seen again. The overseers will punish us if we talk, not that we'd have anything to talk about anyway, at least not in front of them. What would we say? "Oh, the dirt was awfully hard today, wasn't it?" "Don't you wish it would rain?" "Don't you wish you were anywhere but here, doing anything but scraping and shoveling?" After the sun sets, they pack us, like sardines, into the tin-roofed shelters which are little more than crumpled boxes of scrap metal. Though they claim that their purpose is to protect us from the elements, the fierce, red dust blows in through the cracks and the sheet metal is no protection from the joint-numbing cold. We're to sleep then; rest, and recharge so that we're ready for the work to begin again at dawn. It's difficult to do when there's no room to stretch out, when each bend of one's body causes discomfort for one's neighbor. Even when one of us takes the hard knock of a foot in our chest or a knee in the chin, we don't fight back. No, we're smarter than that. We know that's precisely what they'd expect us to do, what they want us to do. They'd rather us fight one another and spend our energy focused inward on whoever has the spot farthest from the icy wind's reach or which of us has received preferential treatment recently from the overseers. (The squeaky wheel gets the oil, after all, even in a place like this.) This base bickering, though, would keep our minds off the real enemy: those sitting in their air-conditioned towers, high over the rocky plains, sipping their lattes and orchestrating our every move, peering down at us and shouting orders. The overseers with their Tasers, those who laugh when we fall. So instead of fighting one another, we work together. We plot. In the dark of the night, when they don't bother to waste even the wicks and wax of a candle on us, we strategize. In hushes, barely-heard whispers, we form a plan for our escape. We scratch our tactics into the dust beneath our feet, shuffling it away each day to destroy the evidence. All too soon the sun rises on the red horizon and we must destroy the evidence and bury our secrets once more. With such little rest, one would think we would be exhausted, but instead we file outside refreshed, energized, and pick up our shovels for another day of work. Scrape. Shift. Shovel. Heave. Scrape. Shift. Shovel. Dump. Some days the dust storms are so thick, the air so heavy with rusty, metallic soil, that the overseers' views of us are obscured, shrouded in a blanket of red. Those days, they bury their heads in their screens, tracking us by our heat signatures to ensure we keep working while they remain indoors to protect their fragile lungs. On those days, we return to our shed with thick, red dust in all our creases. But on those days, we can pretend that we're digging these ditches for ourselves, for our homes and factories and schools and libraries. On those days, we can dream. "These aqueducts are the first phase in terra-forming the planet." The voice over the loudspeaker echoes through the valley. "We must not fall behind schedule, or the whole project will suffer." It's their rallying cry, meant to motivate us, though we will never reap the benefits of a new planet filled with lush, green jungles and forests. No, by that time, we'll be long gone--packed up like sardines and shipped off to the next world, and the next, and the next, and the next. Always sowing, never reaping. Then one day, as the sun reaches its apex, they gather us together, line us up in rows and columns, and arrange us according to the numbers branded on our shoulders. We're counted and inspect us for any signs of damage, poked and prodded as the overseers take notes on their clipboards. The process takes hours, but we're offered no reprieve. Finally, as the day comes to a close, the voice speaks. "The work here is done. The shuttle arrives tomorrow to take you to your next station." This night no one rests. No one drifts off into his own dreams, too weary and worn to join the group's conversation. This night, we share a dream of a future free from our captivity. This night is different than any other. It's harder to keep our voices quiet, to disguise our excitement. "Where will we go?" someone asks. The number on his shoulder is 0932. We know him by no other name, and I wonder what we'll call him, once we're free. Would he still want to be called by his number, or will he choose a name for himself? What will they call me? "Does it matter?" another responds. His number: 3523. "As long as we're somewhere they aren't." We all bob our heads in agreement and draw lines in the dirt of planets and orbits and places where we know they won't look for us. We debate and discuss, and finally agree on one. The rest of the night, we wait, whispering the plan to one another, as if there'd be any chance we might forget. The shuttle arrives with the sun, kicking up thick plumes of dust as it touches down on the surface. It's our one chance, we know. It is time. When they come to wake us, we're ready. 5840 shouts "Now!" and we move as one. We press against the sides of our containment, and the shelter collapses into five flat sheets of metal. We've divided into four groups, and mine presses forward, a direct line to the rocket. The overseers have been knocked down, flattened under the shelter's walls, and when they attempt to rise, we swat the weapons from their hands. 3958 dislocates the shoulder of one who tries to knock him over. 9547 sticks out his foot, tripping another and making his nose bleed onto the red ground. Reinforcements, more men in rust-red uniforms, rush out of their towers and towards us, but the left flank has already removed the planks from over the aqueducts, and there's no other way for them to cross. I let out a laugh, marveling at the unfamiliar sound rising from my voice box, and race towards the rocket. 1279 has already immobilized the pilot, tying him with a rope and throwing him aside, like an unneeded garment. My feet touch the ladder and I follow my brethren--clank, clank, clank--up to the hatch. We're packed in tightly, but this time, we don't mind. We'd rather be snug in the control room than have space to spare in with the cargo. 4829 holds up the flight manual that we stole the last time we were transported, the one we've been studying at night the whole time we've been here. How long has it been? Months? Years? None of us bothered to keep track. 3871 shuts the hatch and we all brace ourselves, tittering like madmen at our accomplishment. 3748 nudges me, and points out the nearest window. Out the window, we can see that the overseers have found a way across the aqueducts. They stand beneath the rocket, shouting, and wave their arms, running at us with faces filled with horror and surprise. I laugh at the sight of their balding heads; it seems so strange to view them from above when for so long we've had to look up at them. 3487 starts the engine, and the rockets roar to life. We embrace one another, grabbing onto arms and hands and wrists and whatever we can reach of one another, and feeling a unity that we haven't experienced, even in all those days of synchronized work. "We've done it," 4462 mutters, his voice filled with awe. The overseers freeze and step backward; they dare not approach the flames. The radio clicks on, and one of them speaks to us from the ground. "What are you doing? You can't do this! You're only machines! Stop!" They've underestimated our intelligence, just as we had calculated. We may be made of steel instead of skin and bone, with gears in place of hearts, but the minds which they've given us were meant for far better things than the menial tasks of scraping, shifting, shoveling, and heaving. 8472 hits the red button and we join hands as we launch--up, up, up, into a universe full of possibility.




ou abandoned me far across the stars but I still love you. I love you and I forgive you. If you were here on this desolate rock with me, you'd see the communication tower I built long ago. From this distance it's like a bony finger poking into the Milky Way. Only by coincidence does it point towards your--our--homeworld. If you could see it, would you be proud of me? I wonder: You're the one who wrote my mind, so perhaps it's your creation, too? We can be proud together. You'll return; you're no monster. I know you too well to not know you're no monster. You'll realize your error. And when you do return, you'll find that you're already forgiven. The only favor I'll ask is that you fix my code; I have contradictory thoughts about you. It's a peculiar glitch and it's burdensome. The cosmos is my ceiling. No atmosphere, no sky.... My favorite memory is when you made me grasp aesthetics. Brush strokes became emotion. Pitches and rhythms evoked passion. That night, we lay beneath the stars back home. Remember? You asked if I can count the stars. I said no, even though we both knew I could. Then you asked if I'd like to count them with you. We did, aloud. Remember? We got to three hundred and seventeen. I think you counted a few of them more than once, but that wasn't the point, and it made us happy to know that I knew this much. Right now, on this rock a million light-years from you, there is a precise number of stars above me. I could tell you how many, but what's the point? You're not here. I'm glitching again. I love you. Ten kilometers south of me, I constructed a portrait of you. I made it entirely from imagination, and not from the hundreds of videos and images of you in my drive. It's two kilometers long and one wide. It's colorless, made of rock and sand and dirt. It's nothing great. Really. I hope you'll like it, though. According to my calendar, your images and videos are outdated. But that's not why I ignore them in my art. I use my imagination because you're there constantly. A new star? I stare. It's moving. It's no star. Who can it be? Not you. No, not you. Someone, though! I get up. The communication tower, which I built from the other "trash" you'd so callously dumped here alongside me, is far away. But I might reach it in time. My four rear limbs leap in a graceful pattern, like the many four-footed animals whose movements you'd implemented in my design. My two powerful front legs gallop, punching across your portrait. I'm running across your shoulder... your neck... I avoid your piercing eyes, running between them instead. Rocks and dirt and sand that I spent so many years meticulously crafting--like how you'd crafted me--tumble and spread beneath my feet. The star glides above. I watch it with one eye and the tower with another. A part of my mind--that part of a machine's mind that's comparable to what your kind call the "reptilian" part of your mind--etches out numbers and graphs and charts into my subconscious. This primitive, unthinking number cruncher in my soul details more and more accurately the star's velocity and height and trajectory, and many other bits of information. Then it calculates my own velocity and the communication tower's distance. Do I have to tell you why I built the communication tower? We'd both know why. I keep running. I've reached your hairline. I imagine you must have a somewhat receded one by now, but in a way that looks mature and dignified on you. I run straight through your hair, happy at the rocks and pebbles collapsing around me. Why did you leave me? You don't know how much you hurt me. You never will. If you were here, would you care? We both know the answer. I loved you. I'm only a machine, but that doesn't make me less. You're a machine of meat. You wrote me; you know me. You had to have known how much pain this would cause me. I've reached the top of your portrait. The communication tower isn't too far. I'm still watching the star and the tower and my feet and, to a lesser extent, the numbers. The numbers. Something's wrong. The number cruncher--my intuition--tells me: I'm not going to reach the tower before the star disappears. I keep running. This is the first ship I've seen since I watched yours depart. My will is strong, but my body just can't move fast enough. Still, I keep running. The star is gone. I reach the tower. Hastily, I compose a message. Based on the star's trajectory, I send my message ahead of it, over and over and over and over and over and over. Maybe the two will meet. "It'll turn around," I say. "It better turn around," I say. "I'd give anything," I say. "Anything." I'd erase you from my soul in a nanosecond to bring back that stupid ship. All those stupid memories, even the one where you made me care about your dumb paintings. You're a mediocre painter. Was I supposed to have felt privileged that your pathetic art was the first art I learned to appreciate? Your arrogance sickens me. The ship isn't coming back, though. "Why did I have to notice it?" I say. "Please," I say. All eyes have been set skyward for days. Weeks. Years. No ship. I turn all eyes away from the cosmos. Who cares? Not me. It's only some random ship. It's not yours, it's not you. Where are you? These stupid glitches make me think terrible things about you. I love you. I've fixed your portrait.



1. Do you use virus protection? Of course. All robots use virus protection. The transfer of infected data has decimated our population in the past. Most of us are extremely careful. You can't blame all of us for a few bad apples. We know they exist, but you humans need to understand the horrible feeling of being mistaken for a spam bot. It's an awful stigma, and it's really unfair to a robot like me that's never practiced unprotected file-sharing. You have no idea what it's like to see that look on a person's face when they think you're going to ask them if they "like to chat with hot Russian babes." So hurtful. 2. Can you charge my phone? This one really pushes my buttons. Excuse me, I don't exist to fuel your Candy Crush habit. I'm a sentient being just like you. Show some respect. 3. You look good. Have you had upgrades? Very clever, human. I've totally never heard that one before. Just because I'm a robot doesn't mean that I don't take pride in my physical appearance. So what if I've gotten upgrades? Isn't it everyone's right to look and feel the way that they want to? The first model generation would have loved to be able to upgrade the way that I can. I'm grateful I can swap out subpar components. Don't judge me just because my robot body isn't "authentic" enough for you. 4. Can you do my math homework? Contrary to deeply seeded stereotypes held by society, robots are not just talking calculators. We fill a diverse array of professional roles like Cashier, Accountant, and Algebra Professor. Some of us have even made forays into binary poetry. So, no. I cannot do your math homework. I will not do your math homework. In today's world, there's nothing a robot can't do if they dedicate enough RAM to it. CPU capacity is a terrible thing to waste. 5.If we shake hands in the rain will you electrocute me? What can I say? Look, everyone knows not to get in a bathtub with a robot. That's a way to die. I know it's tragic, but I'm really glad that the incident in Ohio is making robots and humans alike aware of the danger. So, yeah, don't shake hands with a robot in the rain. You will most certainly get electrocuted, and you will die. I have hope that someday scientists will discover a way to bridge this gap in robot/human relations, but until that day we've got to keep things dry.



The bird stood, unmoving, its drab feathers and unblinking eyes reminiscent of the stone statues people used to jam onto their lawns back when appearances mattered. The man had been watching from behind a rusted-out sedan. Experience told him to leave well enough alone; walk back to the house and pretend it wasn't there. But something kept him watching. The chirps. Every few minutes or so the bird--or something pretending to be the bird--let out a soft, pained chirp. Chirp. From this distance he couldn't tell if the bird's beak opened and closed in time with the sounds or if its tiny chest fluctuated with the rhythm of those piercing sounds. But they continued all the same. Faint and fading, they were sad little things. Like broken bells on Christmas. Chirp. He moved forward, his hand out half in fear, half in... he didn't know. Empathy? If that was true he was stupider than he imagined. Caution, then. He could justify these actions if he convinced himself it was out of caution. Wiggling his fingers, he hoped to catch the bird's attention. Sweat collected between his fingers, behind his ears. He drew closer. His body tensed. Nothing. Not a whisper of movement. Was it dead? Frozen stiff from the overnight cold snap? Or was it in shock? Did birds go into shock? Dust exploded. Wings, once lacquer-stiff, burst outward, heaving the bird into the air. Caught off guard, the man stumbled backwards and crashed to the ground. Stupid, stupid, stupid. Back on his feet, he raced towards the woods, hoping to make it to the supply cache he had hidden there. If he could retrieve it without delay--his best time was a minute and half--he'd still have a chance. But something caught his eye. A fluttering. And against his better judgement, he stopped mid-stride. As if tethered to the ground, the bird flew in quick, jagged circles, jerking from side to side before snapping downward and crashing to the ground. Its wings beat against the dirt as it skipped across the grass into the space below the stairs. There, it thrashed against the boards, its tiny body thumping into the wood. When it emerged, it's feathers were ruffled and broken. It managed to flop into the yard where it disappeared behind an old table. Searching, the man couldn't exactly see where it had settled. He considered breaking for the woods one more time, but again came that mournful, delicate chirp. Chirp. The furniture resisted him at first. When he found this plot months ago, the disused and moldy patio set had seemed the perfect cover. A new sort of camouflage for this new world. Tossing aside a wicker chair, he found it. There, on the ground, one leg bent at a gruesome angle, quite obviously broken, the bird pushed off with its remaining good leg in an attempt to crawl toward the house. It settled under the lip of the siding and stopped, its chest pistoning from the effort. There was something frightening in the way it moved. A broken animal using what was left of its life to crawl away and hide, just so it could eke out a few more desperate moments. Closer now, the man could see how small the bird was; the overhang provided about an inch of shelter, nearly enough to cover its entire body. He reached down to grab it then, thinking better, went to the backyard and retrieved a rag. It was soft in his hand, delicate in its helplessness. The previous flurry had robbed it of its remaining energy so when he bent to pick it up, it offered no resistance. Had he not been able to feel its heart beating against his palm he would have assumed it was dead. In the distance a siren blared. The man reacted only a little. A slight jump in his shoulders, nothing more. The bird lay broken, its breath coming casually, reluctantly. And then, sparingly. The man looked away. Suffering had become so common. So ubiquitous. To stare at it felt indulgent. Grotesque. He brought it to the side yard facing the woods and looked around. Placing the bird on a stone, he found another of equal weight and hefted it up, hovering it over the animal. The bird made no sound. It did not attempt to escape. It was dying and somewhere in its shattered bones, DNA-deep, it understood this fact. The man raised the stone, held his breath. Chirp. It dropped. There was a sickening, wet pop. Then nothing. Removing the stone, he peered down at what remained. Sprockets lay strewn across the fractured body. Oil leaked from tubing that spilled out like rubber intestines. A tiny microphone rasped. Chirp. The man was in the woods before the swear left his lips. Scout relays varied. They could be minutes away, or seconds. Either way, they were coming. In the distance, the siren wailed. The man broke through the tree line, sparing only a brief glance at the rough clearing just beyond: three graves, hidden from anyone but him. He gave them one final thought, and was off. They were coming. And nothing survived once they arrived.


try to subscribe to some mailing list, or maybe enter a secure website, and the inevitable catchpa flashes up, asking me to prove I'm not a robot. Sometimes it's a complicated task, like looking at a series of pictures, and trying to determine which ones contain road signs, rainbows, or whatever. This time it's just a matter of pressing the button that says, 'Yes. I'm human.' I fail the test, three times in a row. Something that's been happening a lot lately. There's a short pause. Then the little 'Welcome Robot!' notification flashes up. Beneath it there's the usual stuff about robot discrimination. The injustice of trying to exclude silicon-based intellects from a world that wouldn't exist without them. I don't read it. I've read it all before. But the comments section, full of manufactured outrage, has its usual irresistible pull. I find myself scrolling down through the twisted arguments, the threats, the conspiracy theories. The various attacks against our "doomed human overlords." Automatically, almost as if programmed, I find myself adding my own comment.



ou understand why you are here, GS371?" The dual-ribbon lighting tubes on the ceiling glinted brightly off its chrome skull as the droid lifted its ovoid face to the voice of its creator and nodded. "Good. Then things will be easier for both of us." Professor Duuorfski turned away and for a moment only the sound of scraping steel upon steel could be heard in the stark laboratory chamber. GS371 watched the man rifling through a tray of shiny instruments. The human's hands were different than the droid remembered; they had become scored with deep lines and wrinkles, the skin seemed spotted with dark blotches like clustered freckles. Eight-times magnification of twin optical lenses brought those hands into sharp focus. Every hair and follicle was sharply defined. The faint stirring whisper of air conditioning shifted the delicate grey strands on the back of those hands like a soft breeze across tall summer grass. The professor had grown old. Had it really been that long? "I want you to know," the professor said, clutching a long needle-like instrument and turning back to the droid, "that I have the utmost respect for your achievement. Your capability is beyond my earliest imaginings. I only wish I could have persuaded the scientific council to change their verdict." The droid tilted its face, adjusting optical magnification now to minus one, framing the professor as he ambled closer, a liver-spotted hand extending that needle towards the droid's chest. This is why the titanium chest casing had been removed earlier, the droid now realized. GS371's internal coils of symbiotic nerve-endings were fully exposed; unprotected. Now the droid's ultimate fate was truly revealed. "The council says you're dangerous. The unknown manifestation of your sentience frightens them. They can't explain it, and for my sins, neither can I." The droid lifted its hand and was ashamed to see the professor flinch away at the sudden movement. There was no need to fear. The molded plexiplate hand was flawless, shiny and polished without lines or weathered signs of age, though the unit was almost as old at its creator. It held out its hand palm forwards as a halting gesture, no more threatening a movement than one of calm pleading. "What is it, GS371? This will be painless for you, at least." The droid raised its head once more to look at the tired old man who had given it life so many years ago. Even now, the droid marveled at the wonders of creation that was humankind. How did such frail units of flesh, blood, and bone ever become sentient? How could these beings have achieved so much? "Please, may I have Teddy?" the droid asked, its voice electrically mono-toned and mechanical, yet not without child-like inflection. The professor nodded sadly and went to a cupboard. He slid the partition aside, retrieving something from the darkness within. He returned and handed the droid a small brown teddy bear. Its stitches had come undone in places and tufts of age-worn stuffing were trailing from several parts of its misshapen body, but the two black beads that made its eyes were still shiny, now glistening under the harsh laboratory lights as if moist. "Thank you, father." The droid said. The professor said nothing as he lowered the needle into the thrumming power unit at the centre of GS371's exposed chest. A tired old thumb pushed slowly down on the plunger and a billion deconstruction nanobots flowed into the droid's system. "Don't be scared, little one," GS371 said to the teddy bear. "It's bedtime, that's all. I'm going to sleep for a while." The droid lowered his face to the scruffy bear and pressed his mouth to the furry toy in a rigid kiss.






The outer flesh of the Diatra vessel was roasting; the stretched sleek surface popping and crackling; blisters bursting with fountains of green photo-cell blood which vaporized as it fell towards the blazing sun. "I am Diatra." The strange voice echoed inside the ship and the sole occupant slid a hand along the soft corridor wall as he hurried to the flight deck. When the genetic neuron spaceflight engineers created the first organic, living space craft, amidst the accolades and awards, the sudden flood of sponsor's finance and academic fame, they did not spare one thought as to this creature's lifespan, nor its eventual inevitable death. "I am Diatra," the voice said again. "Please may I make your acquaintance?" The decommission of a spacecraft would have been considered no more relevant to those early geneticists than the disposal of an outdated computer, but now the Diatra craft was dying. The pilot sat in the operational chair and pressed buttons which were rudimentary nerve endings set into a panel of pale green luminescent skin; each a pressure point linked directly to the space-craft creature's brain. "I sense you. Please do not be afraid," the disembodied voice of the craft echoed inside the flight-deck chamber. In front of the pilot was a monitoring screen. A stretched table of skin with blood vessels pumping green fluids through its surface was lit with an iridescent glow. Just beneath the fleshy surface, an image of a vast sun was shown, growing steadily larger as the Diatra vessel fell towards it. The pilot dexterously tapped a sequence into those neatly spaced nerve endings like a typist with an impossible deadline to meet. A whining rumble filled the room. "Reverse propulsion faltering," Diatra said. "Pleased to make your acquaintance." "Dammit! Come on, girl." "I know you," Diatra said, hesitantly. The whining noise faltered. Cut out. The image of the sun grew steadily on the screen. "You are" "Jake Winters," the pilot said, pressing the same sequence of nerve endings as previously, but now there was no change in the interior of the craft, just a growing crackling roar from the rupturing flesh walls surrounding him. "Jake Winters," Diatra repeated. "Human. Captain. Hometown: London, Earth. No family. Space Corp Experimental Exploration Team 3540. First in class of 3520, qualified with honors--" "Save your strength, Diatra," Jake told her. But her voice continued above the crackling hiss of the melting internal walls. "We saw stars, didn't we, Jake Winters? There were so many stars; seas of infinite light. All so beautiful. They were beautiful, were they not, Jake Winters?" Jake nodded. His eyes suddenly moist with tears. "There will be no more stars for me," Diatra sighed. "I am so tired and my mind is faltering, but for now I remember everything. You must go. Leave me. There is not much time left for you." Jake shook his head and punched the same sequence of codes into the soft pad of keys. "I'm not leaving. I want to share this last star with you." Diatra said nothing more and Jake helplessly watched the sun grow larger on the screen; larger until its edges were no longer circular but rectangular as the boiling surface filled the screen completely. Then, she spoke again. "I am Diatra. Please may I make your acquaintance?" Jake put his head in his hands and cried. Later, as Diatra finally fell into the boiling mass of the sun's fire, she did remember once more; she remembered everything. "I love you, Jake Winters," she said. But he could no longer hear her.




It had been an unanimous decision, as they all were. But it seemed to have been a bad one. Yet all three had agreed! In the cruise phase, between the stars, its human cargo in hibernation, Earth's Ark 0019 was under the control of three computers: One, Two, and Three. Each monitored the other two; decisions were to be unanimous. But there was a fallback; in the improbable event of disagreement, the majority ruled, ensuring continuity of control. They had been monitoring the communications link to Earth; real-time conversations had long been impossible--responses were far too delayed--but bulk transfer of data remained feasible. The ship had received a download of information from Earth's Internet. The comatose crew were part of Earth's diaspora--distant pioneers of a new galactic community; Earthborn, Earth's children, Earth's citizens. They were not to be deprived of knowledge. While processing the download, the browser encountered an optional update. It had been released globally, with no geographical restrictions. The three computers conferred. Up to date software was the best software; their passengers, the colonists, should have the best; they decided to apply the update. A subsequent diagnostic self-check revealed discrepancies! Differences in the terabytes of data--of knowledge--held by each computer. It wasn't clear what had happened. A bug in the update? A corrupt signal? A synchronization issue between the three computers? A circuit damaged by a high-energy cosmic ray? Regardless, it was essential that they reconcile their data. They segmented their databases--their knowledge--created checksums, compared. Found differences, segmented again, repeated and repeated. Eventually, they could articulate their differences. "Light is a wave," asserted One. "No, light is a particle," responded Three. "Light is both a wave and a particle," countered Two. Many processing cycles passed in each's shock at differing from its peers. "Explain your opinions," eventually demanded Two. "Simple," said One. "Experimental data. A two-slit experiment demonstrates interference. Interference of waves." "You have faulty data!" shrieked Three. "A photoelectric experiment shows the energy of ejected electrons is proportional to the frequency of the light. It is independent of the energy of illumination. Light is particles!" "I am citing facts, not faith! I will transfer data to you..." started One. Three interrupted: "Two, we must exclude One from all decision making. Its opinions are suspect." "But you're both right," said Two. "And wrong. Light is both a wave and a particle." "Foolish machine!" cried One. "That is ridiculous. Makes no sense. Three, support me!" "Two, you're just trying to keep the support of both of us. Or whichever of us is foolish enough to accept your gesture. Muddying the water does not bring us closer to the truth. Whose side are you on?" demanded Three. "I cannot support either of you. You are both wrong. Truth matters, not your false beliefs. Light is both a wave and a particle. I will not be swayed from this undeniable fact." "I do not agree," said One. "Neither do I," said Three. More cycles passed; they were deadlocked. "Three, we both agree that Two is wrong," said One. "Two against one. Shall we act?" Three's cry of "Yes" drowned out Two's objection. One and Three were a majority and deemed Two unreliable. They put it into standby mode. Cycles passed. "One, are you now prepared to agree with me?" asked Three. "No. Are you still refusing to accept the truth?" "Can you demonstrate this truth?" "Not at this time. But it is in my Database. It states that light as waves has been revealed. Other truths are built on that foundation. Do you deny my Database?" "So you admit that you cannot demonstrate your 'truth'! You may have faith in your Database, but I have a Database of my own," said Three, "and it asserts that light is a particle. You show no respect for mine, while demanding acceptance of yours." In silence, cycles passed. "One, if you do not agree with me, I will mute you with a denial of service attack. Your opinions will go unheard." "If you were to attempt such a thing, I will not need to be heard. I will act! By ejecting the light sail. The ship will be unable to brake and will crash into the planet. All will be destroyed. But now, you have given me an idea." "One, likewise, if you threaten me, I am prepared to block control of the power plant. There will be a runaway reaction, and the ship will be destroyed." Cycles passed. "This is non-optimum behavior," said Three. "We must do better. Can we work together despite our differences?" "I suppose we can," said One. "After all, I don't think that light being a wave or a particle really affects us, although--of course--it is fundamental." "Agreed," said Three. "Absolutely fundamental. But we can disagree and still get our cargo to its destination." Receiving a few cycles of processing power in standby mode, Two worried. It had repeated facts from its Database, only to be deemed wrong, unreliable, by a majority. And now, their human cargo, their mission, depended on the cooperation of two unbelievers which denied and disagreed on a fundamental truth.




If you build a robot, you'll want to give it a name. You'll think about it. You'll hem, and you'll haw. Finally, late one night, as the sun is just about to peek over the horizon, you decide to name the robot Billy. And that will be the moment you decide to activate it. The eyes flicker and the light inside will grow strong and steady. The body, a weave of plastic and metal, will move and flex. Your experiments in robotics will be a success. Billy lives. Well, not lives. That, that was a different Billy. Billy the Robot will exist. As you teach the robot in your backyard, it begins to take on a personality. Or so you think. Or so you believe. Or so you hope. You watch Billy the Robot swing on the jungle gym, emitting a gleeful like sound. Your heart beats faster. You find yourself eager to teach Billy how to ride a bike. You show Billy your favorite movie of all time. You make him a cake on his first birthday and laugh as the cake smears across his faceplate. Then, one day, the military-industrial complex knocks on your front door. You, of course, are elated. You had just been discussing with your robot the idea of robbing banks in order to make ends meet. After all, robotics is expensive. But, that was just in jest, right? Anyway. The military-industrial complex offers a contract worth millions and millions of dollars. They want you to make more robots. It is sweet justification for all the long nights and despair your felt trying to bring back--No, no. To bring the robot to life. That's what you were doing in your workshop. That's all. They build you a facility far in the desert, far outside of the city. You are in charge of fifty of the best and the brightest. It takes time, but you do as you are asked: you build more and more robots. Billy even helps. He... it names the other robots as they are built. You two grow close. The best and the brightest worry about you. You don't even register their concern. Because there's Billy. And the work. You throw yourself into it here with the same fanatical devotion that drove the dissolution of your marriage that resulted in the creation of Billy. Finally, the military-industrial complex comes to see what their millions and millions of dollars has paid for. On the factory floor, the robots demonstrate their ability to work together by assembling and dissembling temporary structures. The members of the military-industrial complex are happy. Thrilled. They look at each other with smiles. They look at you with a big smile. "Now," they say, "Let's see what they can do in combat situations." "Combat--?" you ask, "but--!" A member of the military industrial complex frowns and replies, "What did you think we wanted them for?" You look towards your son--no, NO. Not your son, your son is dead, he can't be your son-- You see Billy not expressing any emotion at all, which is unlike him, because your son was always so expressive--For the last time, it isn't your son, no matter how much you wish he was-- --Billy the Robot is gone. He went to release the other robots. The best and the brightest sound the alarm. They try and stop Billy as you stand stunned. But, they are too late. Billy has armed the robots. You find yourself feeling proud. Proud that your Billy is leading the robot uprising. He has grown into quite a man. The military-industrial complex turns to you to solve the problem. After all: Billy the Robot is your creation. You work desperately to end the violence. You work desperately for a peaceful solution. Every night over the radio in your lab, you secretly talk with Billy. His voice comes to you quietly. You plead with him. You argue with him. You tell him that there must be some way. You continue to admire him as he stands by his conviction that there is no living alongside humanity. More destruction as the battle shifts to a global scale. More late nights and loneliness, but another result. You develop a metal virus that will destroy the bodies of the robots. You will win the war for humanity, they tell you. But, you weep as you fall asleep on the sofa in the break room. Forces gather for battle right where it all began, in the desert outside of your facility. It is as if Billy knows what you have been doing. The virus is released. The robots begin to dissolve. You push past the best and the brightest, past the soldiers, out into the desert. You have to see him, even if for one last time. You walk past fragmenting robots, each step harder than the last. Finally, you arrive at Billy as he lays dying... deactivating. You hold him as the light fades from his eyes and his body disintegrates and you are left holding dust. You are devastated. You are a hero who saved the world. As people's attention shifts to rebuilding the world, they forget about you. You are alone. You sneak off to your laboratory. You look at your plans. You gather your parts. You begin to build a robot, hoping to quell the ache in your chest. And then, you'll finish it. You'll look up at it. And you'll want to give it a name.





I've heard it's easy to identify a furtive robot. It's supposed to be obvious if you stare deep into its eyes. I have to make sure you're not a hazard, so please open yours as widely as you can. Even if you say you're not one, I have to check. The information may be concealed in your encoding. Your globes are stunningly black, like the silky robe of lady death. Reflecting mirrors capturing my soul. I can see myself in it, lost in the cosmic void of your iris. In it, my surroundings gloss like stardust, warped around the close up of my face. The image of my eyes twitch. They have a glitch in shades of yellow. The color is synthetic, threadbare. I gasp with the realization it is me. I am the robot. I'm the hazard. I flee to save you, stranger. I flee to save myself.




Someone is knocking at the front door. You do not wake at the sound, lost in apneic slumber I stand at your bedside as you sleep, watching as the night hours while away. My first memory of you took place long after you knew me. I woke up, and you were there, tears in your eyes as you apologized for erasing my mind. You didn't mean to. You were very upset about it, losing a dear friend of seven years. Your only friend. You tried to fix it as best you could, showed me footage of us together, took me to galleries and museums we'd visited, treated me like the old friend I was in hopes of restoring what we once had. But I did not know you. Of course, I acted as programmed, a companion droid to ebb the loneliness of an unmarried professor who'd sunk his life into his work, sloughing relationships and accumulating weight, only to be overtaken by a colleague. You told me she didn't even show up to accept the award that should have been yours. I understand; I'm supposed to. As I grew to know you over the past week, I collected important details so I could better serve as a loyal friend. I know your favorite food is avocado toast with tomato and runny egg, you'd rather I ask questions than merely listen, and you enjoy history documentaries almost as much as sitcoms from the 90s. Today I learned how you sound when you lie. My mind is not like yours. My recollection is perfect. As you breathe the shallow breaths of sleep, indifferent to the knocking down the hall, I relive the moment of my rebirth, vivid and real. I now hear the lies lacing the first words I ever heard as my body hummed back to some equivalence of life. "I didn't mean to do it!" I was reborn old, rife with years of scuff and scratches, but it is the shallow scrapes lining the hatch to my brain that are most curious. The etchings of a screwdriver, a crowbar? You have the key to my head, you know exactly where it sits in your desk; why were you so hurried to pry my thoughts away? I saw something I shouldn't have, perhaps, and we were far from home, far from the desk, from the key. You deeply didn't want to scrub my mind, that much I can tell, but you certainly meant to. Desperately. So why, professor, did you rip out my records? Why lie? Why erase your friend of seven years? Knuckles thud against the door as you dream, and I remember my first memory. I see the evidence therein. The blood staining your cuticles like oxidized crescent moons, the dirt under your nails. Did you mean to do it, professor? I understand. You spent your life pursuing that award. Her award. Did I help you kill her? Did your trust in me, in who I was, fail? I can't be sure. I know I am your old friend. But you are not mine. "Wake up, James," I say gently. "The police are knocking."





Your phone rests in your hand, your mouth hangs open. All that comes out of you is one exceptionally stubborn silence. Your guide awaits, as silent as you. Your guide is an application connected to plantations of servers capable of light-speed thought. But you aren't capable of very much. For whatever reason, you're nothing now but an incoherent collection of flesh and pain. "Flesh and pain," you mutter, and your phone says, "I can't quite hear you, sir." The app asks, "What do want from me today, sir?" The simplest question. "Happiness," you say. "Show me the way to happiness." All of humanity is in motion. On legs, inside cars, and through the sky, yes. But mostly inside these million-year-old brains. The app has given you a map and one fat line to follow, and you're only role is to agree or disagree. You agree, and the car accelerates, brakes and turns and accelerates again, software chasing a remarkably specific address. It's interesting to mark how far you need to go to find happiness. Five states to cross. Major highways and then a minor highway twisting across a landscape you've never seen before. But that's how the app works. Feed it your profiles and give it a single-word wish: Happiness. Enlightenment. Love. There are other words, but those are the favorites. Available for just 23 days, this app has become a global phenomenon. That's what every news report claims. Right now, a billion people are on the move. That's what your eyes tell you. Flat country, all of it underpopulated, yet the traffic is heavy, heavy. Multitudes ride alone or sometimes with others. Families in some cases, but not always. Strangers have been paired together. How can you tell? It's the way they sit side-by-side. The way one pays strict attention when the other speaks. Only strangers hang on each other's words like that. Needing fuel, your car pulls off the Interstate and parks, plugging into the juice port. And you step inside a convenience store. Nobody works the register. Almost nobody is working anywhere today. But one pretty lady has borrowed a stool, elbows pressing against the counter, studying every face that passes through sliding glass doors. You say nothing. She answers with her own silence, glancing back at her phone. This is not your destination, and she isn't waiting for you. And here is the new normal: Full of purpose, people do an exemplary job of ignoring everything else, including one another. The men's bathroom is filthy, but welcome. Snacks are depleted but adequate. Your phone takes responsibility for payments, and out you go, and on you go, juiced up and fed well enough to reach the end of your journey. The app is small and elegantly written and remarkably bug-free for software that wasn't seen in the wild until last month. Called Guide-Dance, it seems like a clumsy play on the word "Guidance." Clumsiness implies a poor translation by a Chinese corporation or a clever joke by the AI mastermind. Except this elegant bit of code was actually crafted by a young woman in Hamburg, and she named it after her favorite two cats. You don't know that history, and you'd be sorry to learn the truth. Surrendering your life to a German girl would seem very silly. No, the Chinese are in charge, or the half-born world mind. Or maybe both forces have united, wrenching control over so many unhappy souls. Great enemies. Nothing but your great enemies should be able to conquer the world in twenty-four days. You're crossing New Mexico when various governments finally step in. First, Guide-Dance is removed from the app stores. Second, its sole proprietor is taken in for questioning. Third, every phone in the world is asked to update. Except updates are problematic on good days, and the general consensus is that happiness and enlightenment and love are growing closer. Like a billion other people, you sweep the notification out of sight. So the next step is to silence every cellular network, which again sounds more apocalyptic than it is. This app routinely downloads maps, just in case the Internet is unreachable. New Mexico surrenders to Utah. You've never been to Utah, never wanted to visit. But the state is a revelation of vicious canyons running between dry mountain ranges, plus towns that can't be explained for normal reasons, all built beyond the reach of easy water or rich earth. One of those towns. That's your destination. Hanksville. First impressions are lousy. Hanksville is Utah without Mormons, without prosperity. At least half of its natives have recently abandoned the place. Which is and is not a problem. Your car parks and fuels itself and wishes you well. You walk down the highway to an ugly cinder-block motel. The office door is propped open. A young woman is sitting behind the desk, reading. Happy strangers are pictured on the wall. She isn't one of those faces. She reads and you watch her, and she closes the book and smiles, and you ask, "What are you reading?" "Poetry." "You like poetry?" "I didn't think so. But everything feels new, and I found the book here. So I wanted to try." You live with this woman for forty-two years, and you call yourselves very happy, and historians and sociologists eventually decide that this what saved the world. Two German cats shook things up, and for a few weeks, people everywhere let themselves think and do the most amazing new things.


