It begins as an app. You download it after all your friends do it first and you pretend it's as cool as you think they think it is. The app asks for permission to use your camera (among other things) and you accept because at this point, fuck it all. You open it and log in through Facebook (because who honestly wants another profile and password to remember). The app prompts you to take a five second video of whatever is directly in front of you. You record five seconds of your desk at work. Another on-screen prompt appears. "Hey new user! Congrats on your first video! Now add something!" You stare at the screen blankly, not understanding, but your friend--peeking over the cubicle wall--comes to the rescue. "Just say anything, it can figure it out," Dillion says. "Like what? What should I say?" you reply. "Doesn't matter. Just tell it to add a rabbit or something to your desk." "Ok. Put a rabbit on my desk?" "Like this?" It replies. The video you took of your workspace auto plays. It is the same, except now there is a white fluffy rabbit sitting on your desk. It looks perfectly real. As if it had been in the original video. You laugh and are mildly impressed. Deep down you know you should probably be more impressed, but you don't really know enough about the technology to know how impressed you should be. You decide to be as impressed as everyone else seems to be. After all, it's just an app. At lunch the next day, someone takes a video of you while you are talking and eating. Everyone looks at their phones and laughs. You ask to see, and chuckle when you see your head replaced with Abraham Lincoln's. It looks like a video of Lincoln saying what you said with your voice. While you are smiling, you feel mildly uneasy but you won't know why. Not yet. A few weeks later it happens. The video circulates through the office in hushed tones and stifled laughs. The boss having sex with Kayla in his office. You laugh like the rest, but you feel mildly anxious and for the first time in a long time, moderately curious. "Who did this?" you ask. "I don't know, but isn't it hilarious?" "Yes." Demonstrating a zeal you rarely feel for your actual work, you find out who made it. "Dillion, how did you do it?" "It was surprisingly easy. I just pretended to have sex with a blow up doll while Michael was out of his office." "You got naked in his office?" "Fuck no, you kidding me? With Jake fucking videotaping me?" "I don't understand." "Have you even used the app? I fed it pictures from Michael's Facebook, all those horrible shirtless pictures from the company retreat in Cabo. And a few pictures from Kayla's Facebook, too." "That's all it took? It filled in the rest?" "Well I fed it a few videos from a certain website, if you know what I mean. Just to get all the... little... details in. But yeah, it spliced perfectly. Really only took me like ten minutes." The next day a meeting is held and the app is banned. A few days after that and everyone in the office has downloaded it. Several nights later when you're bored and mildly lonely you have an idea. In truth, it isn't the first time you've had the idea, just the first time you've let it out, acknowledged it. You hesitate. Try to distract yourself. You send a text to Jake. Ask if he wants to hang out. He doesn't reply. What's the harm? You ask yourself. You download a video from a certain website. You visit Kayla's Facebook page. You open the app. A few minutes later you feel mildly guilty. But then Jake replies and you forget all about it. You spend your evenings making videos. Mostly alone. Sometimes you invite the guys over and you make funny videos. Different from the ones you make alone. Dillion says that he spends all his nights making porn of the other women in the office. You laugh politely but look down at your phone. You don't want them to know. You're not like Dillion. You arrive at work. Sit down at your desk. Check the news. The president's been assassinated. You click to unlock mature content and watch the president's head get blown off. You check the comments to see if it's real but no one knows. You open another news app. It says it's fake. You feel only mildly relieved. Everyone else in the office discovers the news seconds later. You don't react, because you already know it's fake. But you don't say anything either. You watch your friends' reactions quietly. The next day the app is taken off the stores. But they can't take it off the phones. A video of you fucking a rabbit circulates around the office. You don't laugh--not even politely. Kayla throws up. You don't know how to feel about that. You wonder if she finds you disgusting now. You report Dillion. Dillion is fired. You arrive at work, saying hi to Kayla on your way in. She smiles. You smile back. Michael calls you into his office. "I fired Dillion because of the video he made of you." "Thank you." "Shut up. What is this?" Michael turns his monitor around so you can see. It's security footage of you and Dillion in the stairwell. You are telling him to make a video of you fucking a rabbit. You tell him that it will be funny. "That's fake." "This isn't the fucking app. This is security footage." Michael nods at the security guard standing in the corner. You didn't see him before. You gather your things and leave. You don't say goodbye to Kayla. "How did you do it, Dillion?" you ask him in the bar. He laughs. He doesn't know you're recording him. "It was easy, took like ten minutes. I walked into the security office when the guard was out and input that video." "I don't understand." "Why don't you think for once in your life. You think the app is the only way to access this software? You think I'm running my website through the app? God, how dumb are you?" "Not as dumb as you." "I know you're recording me, dumbass. You think a recording taken on your phone is going to hold up in court? You think Michael is going to let you into his office to show him the video on your phone? I'm outta here, man. I have a celebrity porn site to run." Later that night you start a video recording. You livestream it to Facebook. You lean your phone against the bathroom mirror, and make sure the camera can see you. You have a lot you want to say but you don't know how to say it. You shake for a few seconds. Then you put the gun in your mouth and pull the trigger and send your brains and blood all over the shower curtain. The first person to see your video reports it. One friend leaves a comment on the video. Their comment says: "Facebook buys the app today and already im seeing ths fake shit on here" The video is removed.


You ask me to tell you a story. So I sit on the floor next to your bed, and I tell you the same story I told you last night and the night before. It's the story of a boy who was lost when the buildings collapsed under the weight of fires. This happened back when we lived above ground with windows, although you have forgotten that time after all the days we've spent down here in the catacombs. But even though the boy died, I don't tell you the story about the boy being crushed. I tell you about how the boy enjoyed exploring abandoned malls with his puppy. I tell you about the boy's favorite food: pumpkin pie. It wasn't real pumpkin; it was squash in a can. But it was delicious, and it made him happy. You fall asleep, and then I fall asleep. And that's all there is in our small apartment: just us two. You ask if you can come with me to work. Sometimes I let you, although I ask you to not talk to me so I can focus on my work. They can't catch me talking to you, not again. I'm worried they'll fire me. Sometimes, you think that's boring and you stay at home and look after yourself until it's time for me to come home and cook dinner. Today, you come with me. You hold my hand, and I loosely let you. I watch the eyes of the other women who go past me, wondering if they can see us holding hands and if they know I'm leading you to work. I used to carry you. They don't say anything. To me, at least. To each other, they say things. It's not right to bring you with me. My job is to sort produce into the canvas bags for the week. You sit beside me and sing songs while the workers from the labs come in with their boxes and set the oranges and bananas and squash on the conveyor belts. They aren't actually oranges and bananas and squash. I'm not sure what they are; I just sort them. You ask me if I want to hear a story. I say yes, under my breath while I try to shove one extra banana into Susan's bag. Her youngest is sick. You tell me a story about the boy's puppy dog. How after the boy died, the puppy went looking for the boy and instead found a puppy wife. I like this ending. We don't have dogs down here. Susan offers to have me over for dinner when she finds the extra banana. I decline, but she shows up later at our apartment after I've eaten and you've been put to bed. She is a thin little thing, but she's not dolled up like all those girls in the films we watch. She's just a woman whose hips have grooves from where she's held her children. She asks me if I've been feeling better. I watch you sleeping in the bed. I lie and say yes, because that's what we all say. If I said I wasn't feeling any better, then all the pity would go to me when none of us have any room for pity. We all carry two things with us: a sadness and the need to keep moving. She says she is not doing well. She says she is doing poorly. Her daughter is going to die, banana be damned. She thanks me for my help, but she says even with the medicine in the hospital down the hall, there's just no hope. There's always hope, I remind her. She laughs. She asks me a question that slips out before she can stop it. I wish she could have stopped it, but it furls so quick down her tongue and through her lips there's nothing either of us can do. She asks me how I survived losing you. I watch you sleeping in your bed. She does not. I didn't, I tell her. I told her the truth because she asked an honest question. I broke along with you. She asks how I keep living then. And I have nothing to offer her. I just watch your little sleeping body in the empty bed. Your chest raises up and down, because you haven't discovered that you don't need to breathe. You haven't discovered you don't have a chest, you don't have a bed. And the bed does not have a boy. She looks to your bed, and she also says nothing. Because she sees nothing. She apologizes for her questions, and she leaves in a hurry. I don't follow. I shut the door. And your eyes flutter open. You ask me who it was and what they wanted. I tell you it was Susan, to thank me for the produce. That seems to be enough of an answer for you. You curl up into yourself, like you did when you were a baby. Your eyes close, and you ask me to tell you a story. So I tell you about the trees and the sky and what it is like to ride a roller coaster seventy feet up in the air. I turn off the lights as you fall back to sleep. And if I close my eyes, I can feel your little fingers entwining with mine. I won't let go. I told you that as I reached under the rubble to hold your hand. "Good night," I whisper. "I'll see you in the morning."

She splashed some water in her face and stared at the mirror. Good morning, Toni. Fecal matter analyzed. Microbiome composition within established parameters. Present families.... "Spare me the details." Shared on Fit-o-Sphere. Toni bundled and secured her black hair in a tight ponytail. Data analysis had shown this was by far the most successful look for freelance fitness and health gurus. Nutritional extraction efficiency calculated. Determining caloric needs for the day_ "Just send it to my lens." Shared on Fit-o-Sphere. A ping reverberated through her skull. Her daily calorie allotment had arrived, complete with suggested recipes and blinklinks to the relevant Fit-o-Sphere_ accounts. She sighed. Physically, she was fine. Otherwise the mirror would have picked it up and alerted her. Yet she felt tired. She closed her eyes and took a deep breath. "Come on, girl, nothing a good workout can't fix." Kitchen alert: Slightly warmed lemon water ready. Spinach, kale, and chia smoothie ready in 10... 9... She left the bathroom and put on her outfit for the day, ensuring that the sponsors' labels were visible from all angles. The top and tight pants clung to her toned body. The smart fabric carefully registered skin conduction, heart rate, and other physiological parameters. All to be shared, of course. Her lens automatically photographed her breakfast. The jar of water and the green smoothie were arranged so that the lighting would be perfect. She was unusually hungry. Both fluids disappeared quickly. But not before the photos had earned >2k likes. Calories calculated and added towards daily goal. The ghost in her mirror had arrived in its second home, her lens. Shared on Fit-o-Sphere. There still was a nagging hole in her stomach, so she grabbed a protein bar from the box sent to her by a company angling for her endorsement. Toni made sure to turn around the bar, exposing the brand name on the shiny wrapper to her followers. Plug time. Each click turned into a trickle on her cloud credit account. And many trickles made a flood of virtcoins. "Hey guys and girls, hope you're enjoying my day so far. Did you like my breakfast? I mean, it's so good. You have to try it. But I wanted a little extra this morning, so I went for one of these triple P bars. They're really good for you. Low in saturated fat, and lots of fiber and protein. Only for a hundred-and-fifty calories! Order them with my code, and you'll get twenty percent off." She ate the bar. Calories added to daily count. Sugar is fairly high. Shared on Fit-o-Sphere. She wanted to shout at her lens to shut up, but that would be recorded. And while a rant or breakdown every now and then was good for the number of views, an overload had the opposite effect. Her next bad day wasn't scheduled until two weeks from now. So, time to smile and perform her morning workout. "Okay dolls and dudes, this is a new HIIT workout I developed. You can get the details and other routines in my new e-guide. It's discounted for another week, so don't wait too long to order it." Once upon a time, she had frequented regular gyms. Now, she had her own fitness room. Perfectly attuned lighting. Strategically placed mirrors. No interlopers screwing up the video. During the training circuit, she tried her best to avoid shots that showed less than perfectly positioned body parts. Skin folds and flabs, although unavoidable when you exercise, always lead to discussion and body shaming. And the less editing she had to do, the better. Twenty minutes later, she scrolled though the footage, still panting. Looking good is hard work. A touch-up here, a streak of muscle-emphasizing shadow there, and done. Shared on Fit-o-Sphere. "Hi, my sweet Tonio's and Tonettes. Did you like the workout? Twenty minutes is all you need to get in the best shape of your life. You should really give it a try." "Buy my new e-guide"-links snuck their way onto the lenses of Toni's followers. Not too overpowering, but persistent. Repetition rather than flamboyance, she had found, was the key to generate the highest possible revenue. "Anyway, I'm heading out for lunch with a friend of mine. Maybe you know her. And if you don't, you should. It's Collie from Clean&Lean." An affiliate link swam over the field of vision of her followers. And, of course, a reciprocal link would swoosh across the lenses of Collie's followers. Networking was another key. Their lunch plates in VegaBar were painstakingly arranged and positioned before being broadcast on their followers' feeds. Calories and macronutrients were gleaned from the bar's cloud-account. Shared on Fit-o-Sphere. "Wow, that was great. You guys really have to visit VegaBar. It's cheap, healthy, and so yummy." Another affiliate link bombarded her followers who were all too keen to emulate Toni. Perfect, beautiful, happy Toni. Back home, she visited the bathroom and let her muscles relax during the few moments of peace she found there. Welcome home, Toni. Hormonal analysis complete. Calories and macros adjusted. Doctor informed. Toni frowned. "What?" Pregnancy is approximately five weeks along. "What!?" Five weeks. What happened five weeks ago? She only remembered bits and pieces. The breakdown. The guy. The waking up. The self-loathing. Pregnant? She can't be pregnant right now. It doesn't fit in her business plan. She has to follow the whole "boyfriend-move-marriage-happy announcement" scheme that has been set up as template. But she can't...? Or can she? No one has to know, right? Shared on Fit-o-Sphere.



When the duo passed him on their way into the attractions, they paused and he said, "Help me," as the female leaned close. He always said either "Help me," or "Stay away." For a solid year, he did not even speak, just looked at the passersby with his worn sad eyes. The duo: She had seven eyes all blinking and he, much older, spoke through his one hundred deep wrinkles, laughing out of the back of his head. "These are the people," the tour guide told them, "who chose mates the way some birds do. At least, that is the lie they made themselves believe." "How did they know when they found the right one?" the female asked. "It was a matter of perception," the guide told her. "If they felt that their positive outlook was connected to the other person, they went for it. When the feeling went away, they usually decided to try someone else instead." Turning a corner, they saw plastic pyramids, toy streets, and rubber towers. The researchers had shrunk a skyscraper and placed it in a bubble; young ones tossed the bubble back and forth, listening to the crash of people inside. On the way out, the female told her companion, "I have an idea." From within one of her many bags, she took out a small hammer. The face of the man in the bottle flashed with hope, which was rare. With great force, she drew her arm back and then swung, but purposely missed at the last moment, refusing to break the glass. Leaving, the duo passed images of crucifixes, electric chairs, concentration camps, and lynch mobs, listening to the man sob, "Why?" from within his chamber.



"emember, keep him talking." Doctor Hofstadter's cobalt eyes are glued to mine, her expression serious as a funeral mask. "You can help him make a better choice." Her concern feels as real as her hand on my shoulder. I try to match her facial expression and nod; the forest seems to twitch, sparrow and insect chatter skipping a beat before resuming. "We're ready, Mr. Wells," she says. I step out of the woods. A familiar dirt road littered with detritus winds toward the cabin my dead husband, Raymond, and I bought thirty years ago. We brought David here for a dozen summer vacations, maybe more. Its drafty joints, squeaky floorboards, and cold water plumbing were always more to Raymond's and David's tastes than mine. After Raymond died, after David and I grew distant, the cabin sat dormant. Leaf-clogged gutters skirt a shingled roof and solar panels covered by green tarps. The steps up the front porch look ready to snap. A cool breeze dances through the blushing foliage, passing over my skin like an unwanted caress. I should have sold this place years ago. My son is a murderer: The bomb he planted killed four Numinia board members, and now they say only I can help him. I want to want to be here, I tell myself. Placing my foot on the first step feels like an admission of my failure as a parent. The second step is easier. Before my arthritic knuckles can rap against the door, David's voice yells out, "Who's there?" "It's Dad. I'm alone." Silence for ten, fifteen seconds. Then, "Okay." Slowly, I turn the knob, appreciating the cracking rust-resistant paint crumbling under my fingers, an impressively crisp sensation. The door opens on a dusty room shot through with anemic sunbeams bleeding around plaid curtained windows. David is at the table, wearing a pair of LED magnifying glasses. There's a gray brick of what looks like modeling clay and some chipboards. "Gutsy move, old man, coming here." He doesn't get up. There's a shotgun on the floor next to him, black and ominous, as unexpected as a cobra in a bathtub. Burning flux, rubbing alcohol, and dry timber; the scents mix in the air, recalling memories of an office fire, people screaming. RELAX. YOU ARE SAFE. The words blink in bright red capitals in the corner of my eye. "So. Why, exactly, are you here, Dad? They send you in to talk me out the door and into a sniper's bullet?" "David, no," I say. "You're my son." "Sure," he says, "but they're still out there. Only way I leave this cabin is dead, or as a guest of the mind state." He smirks. "Not sure which one is worse." He goes back to work, connecting a wireless receiver to the chipboard in front of him. KEEP TALKING. IDENTIFY. "Son, listen, I understand. The world is on fire, but you need more faith in humanity, more hope." "More hope? All I have is hope. 'Never lose hope. Be persistent and stubborn and never give up,' just like the good book says." "Raymond never should have given you that stupid thing," I growl. "It infected you like a virus." FOCUS. David sighs with satisfaction, puts down the soldering iron, wipes his forehead. "Your company, Dad, the virtual world you've all built--it's a distraction. Civilization is going under. Hurricane Zara just turned Florida into Atlantis. Cape Town is dying of thirst. Vancouver is burning. There's no app for resurrecting...." He trails off, suddenly looking confused. "What, David? For resurrecting what?" "Doesn't matter," he says. One hand drops closer to the shotgun. "You know," he says, "it's strange. I got a feeling like deja vu, right? And then there's the other thing, where I feel like I can't quite remember what I was doing before I woke up here and started working. You ever feel like that, Dad?" "Deja vu? Sure. We've been having this argument for years. But people are adapting. Some cities are thriving; look at Anchorage or Oslo or Boston now the New England Seawall is finished. Things are getting better." "Sorry, but I don't think you're right about that," he says and picks up the gun. "Tell my jailers to do a better job with the memory cutouts when they repeat this little torture." I don't even feel it when the roar comes. I blink and I'm in the interface room, one of dozens in the prison's psychological reorganization center. There are hundreds of places like this one, each running their own pocket Numinias, each one dedicated to helping the violent and disturbed. David's caseworker needed my personal input. Now, looking into her stoic face, I find my doubts reinvigorated. "That was awful." "If he surrenders," she says, "if he gives himself up, we think he'll be ready for the full treatment. With practice, I'm certain you can help him make the leap." "I wasn't there, you know," I say, looking down at my hands. "Thought his ideas about Numinia being dangerous were nonsense." A wall-screen shows my son, recumbent, vulnerable inside his pod, the Numinia halo almost invisible against his forehead. "Mr. Mallory?" Hofstadter finally says, "We're ready to try again. Are you?" Still staring at David, I say, "Never lose hope, doctor, and never give up, right?" Then I close my eyes. The forest rises like a curtain.




Michael Dudlas limped out of his car, which had rescued him from the alley and brought him to the roof of his house. Moving quickly despite the pain, he took the elevator to his basement and unlocked the large room where he kept his reality machine--or, to be more accurate, the virtual mirror copy of the reality machine. He undressed, ignoring the protests from his bruised and aching body, then sunk into the sleek, bath-like pod until every part of him, including his face, was covered by the warm blue liquid. Immediately he felt the pod's large tendrils envelope his body and head, holding them immobile while the small tendrils slunk through his nostrils and into his brain to do their delicate work (or to undo it). He closed his eyes because of the discomfort, waited to feel the shift and for the large tendrils to release him. When he did feel the shift--something like a sharp, instant head-splitting shock which was the result of the tendrils either implanting or removing the neural sensory infusers from his neocortex--he sat up and coughed. Usually he allowed the small tendrils to withdraw gently on their own, but this time he grabbed them and tugged, and they fell into the bath in a stream of snot and blood. One of his eyes was still swollen shut. After the first year with it, he'd begun to deactivate more and more safety controls on the reality machine so that everything in the virtual world felt more and more authentic, and the consequences (thanks to the efforts of the large tendrils) carried over into the real world. Except that when things got too crazy, he could always step out of the virtual world, take a break and heal, and decide if he wanted to reset the world or dive back into the heap of trouble he'd created for himself. Like now. But he didn't want to reset the machine, he wanted to destroy it. And not because things had gotten really, really bad--no, the problem was that his grip on reality was starting to slip; more than once lately, he'd found himself confusing the real and virtual worlds. He needed to destroy the machine. Even if it had cost him all of his substantial life's savings. Because whereas others who could afford it (not many) commissioned exotic virtual worlds where they traveled the stars as captains of starships or fought other gladiators in Roman arenas, his virtual world was more pragmatic and more complex (and had cost a lot more). His world was modeled precisely on the real one, and in it he could do whatever he wanted to whomever he wanted. For as long as he wanted. And that was the problem. He'd lost days to the thing, days giving free rein to the full force of his temper, which in the real world he was always restraining. Days doing awful things; days gobbled up by this playground for his anger and frustration. Days. The pod didn't care--the tendrils supplied the nutrients he needed (cleverly keyed to when and how much he ate in the virtual world), and the bath cleared away his urine and feces. Presently he emerged from the pod and, shivering and dripping blue drops across the marble floor (which instantly sucked them up and disposed of them), he went to the back part of the basement, to the storage where he almost never ventured. From there he retrieved his dad's old sledgehammer. Michael had promised himself that he'd stay away from the machine, to allow his mind time to rebalance itself. But he couldn't stay away. In fact, just like he'd figured out how to disable more and more safety protocols, lately he'd been spending longer and longer in the virtual world, like an addict increasing his dosage to try and catch the same thrill. He returned to the large room where he'd had the pod installed, the sledgehammer held tightly in both hands. Even now the machine called to him with its warm bath and tendrils. That pod-and-tendrils was custom built for his body and his brain, and had little to no resale value (especially after the illegal modifications he'd made). So his choice was destroy it once and for all (he could never afford another one) or be under its power for the rest of his life. The grip on the sledgehammer was starting to hurt his hands. What are you waiting for? he asked himself. What are you fu-- With a loud grunt, he raised the sledgehammer and slammed it down on the pod, again and again, cracking it in two and in three and in four, unleashing his temper on this machine that had stoked the fire of that anger so many times, spilling its blue fluid and tendrils like the blood and guts of a large animal. Only then, with one eye growing wide and wild and one eye still swollen shut, did it occur to him to wonder which machine he'd broken.




Though there was a bowl of hammer pills in the living room ("Hammer pills! For a quicker than liquor buzz!") Cora elbowed her way through the crowd and went into the kitchen to pour herself a glass of wine. Getting drunk the old-fashioned way always calmed her down. It gave her that warm fuzzy feeling of being a child again and stealing fingers from her dad's bourbon bottle. The party seemed to be a success. People were laughing, talking, dancing. Some of the more attractive/confident guests were playing spin the bottle in the corner (What were they, twelve? Not that Cora was any expert on what people did at parties). Her mom would be so proud of her, playing hostess, drinking socially rather than alone on the couch. "Oh Cora," her mother had sighed after catching teenaged Cora sneaking into the liquor cabinet once again. "Drinking alone is just too sad. Drink with friends and no one will say boo." The problem was Cora didn't have any friends. A girl bumped into Cora's elbow. The wine in Cora's hand came up and arced over the glass and onto her polka-dot dress. "Oh my god, I'm so sorry!" the girl said. She smiled sheepishly. "Uh, great, party." Cora said nothing, just breathed in and out deeply. She squeezed her way through the crowded hallway to reach her bedroom. Even through the shut door she could still hear the music from the living room ("Today's Biggest Indie Hits!"). She didn't know the band or the song. The music pod had come with the Readymade party pack along with the vacuum-sealed fruit and veggie trays. The box had assured her that it came with everything one needed to host a wild party. She loved Readymade. They just cut all the bullshit out of life. You didn't need to take the time to get to know trends or people or even what you liked. Readymade had it all ready for you. She changed into a different dress and ventured back out into the party. An especially frantic song pulsated out of the music pod. Was it louder than before? Its beats hit Cora again and again in the cortex. She came into the living room just as one of the dancing party guests tripped on his own feet and fell onto her coffee table. A corner leg buckled and both guest and table hit the ground. "Hey! My table!" Cora yelled. "Sorry," the guy muttered blearily as a girl helped him up. Her apartment wasn't usually this warm. Or this loud. Or this bad smelling. She sniffed and, following her nose, discovered that someone had thrown-up in the pot of her bamboo plant. Cora took a deep breath. She needed another drink. The kitchen was packed with people talking and laughing with furtive giggles. Cora saw that her cupboards were open and everyone had glasses in hand. She then saw the empty wine bottle on the counter. "You drank my wine?" she said, disbelief blanching her words of color. Most of the guests looked at the floor or the ceiling, but one of them, the clumsy girl from before, shrugged. "So? If you're going to have a party, that's the risk you take." Cora's hands clenched and shook. This wasn't worth it anymore. "No, no, no. Everyone out!" They all stared at her. She realized she had said the wrong words. She thought back to the Readymade instructions. "I mean, PARTY'S OVER!" The music cut out. Her guests stared at her. They kept staring at her as they deflated, skin shriveling as the little motors inside them wired and sucked their extremities inward. Thirty seconds later Cora's kitchen floor was covered with half-a-dozen fleshy cubes and puddles of spilled wine. It was a similar sight in her living room. Cora was careful to step around the cubed party goers. She'd pack them up in the morning and put them back in the Readymade party pack. For now she was too tired to clean up. She sat on the couch and popped a hammered pill while enjoying the silence. 'Sorry Mom,' she thought. ''Social drinking is just too much of a hassle.'


It took several blows before the monster stayed down. Even then I kept swinging, the axe head moving like a sped-up metronome. I didn't stop until my knees started to buckle. Only then did I put the axe down and survey my work. The red stain on the floor was a familiar scene, except instead of a young woman a middle-aged man lay smeared on the ground. It was over. No more visions, no more being plunged into the mind of a serial killer at the moment of kill. I doubted that the psi-investigation arm of the FBI would consider this a success, but I just couldn't take it anymore. When I enrolled in the program I was told my job was merely to gather clues, to scan the visions for anything that could uncover the killer's identity. But the closer I got to him the further I got from myself. The visions started to seem more real than my own life. Soon I was spending more time in his sick, twisted brain than in my own. So when I "saw" that he was staying one state over at the Pine Crest Inn, I didn't pass the information on to the higher-ups. I didn't want him arrested. If he got a life sentence, I'd be locked up with him, getting sucked deeper and deeper into his brain every day. I had to sever the connection myself or I'd never be sane again. The girls had all screamed and begged. He didn't even see me coming. Once he got over his surprise he still didn't yell. He looked like someone who had just figured out a riddle. "It goes both ways," he had said as I raised my axe for the killing blow. "It goes both ways." I brought the axe down. Once it was done I sat on one of the motel beds. The mattress bounced under me. I felt lighter than I had in a long time. Dimly I heard sirens. Before I had left the office I had sent an e-mail to my boss, telling him where I was going and why. I had put a timer on it so that it would be sent only after I had had enough time to do what needed to be done. When the police burst through the door I stood with my hands in the air. "It's all right," I said. "I'm FBI." I reached for my badge. It wasn't there. I felt a moment of panic but then my boss, a heavyset man with drooping eyes, stepped through the door. "Boss," I said, smiling. I let one of the cops handcuff me. "Gavin Meyers," the boss said, "You are under arrest for the murder of FBI Agent Thomas Grayson." "What?" I said, jerking away from the cop. "No, boss, it's me, Tom. Gavin Meyers is the killer. What are you doing?" The boss didn't say anything, just cast a glance at the corpse and left. A cop grabbed hold on either side of me. "No, this is a mistake! I'm not Meyers, I killed Meyers! He killed those girls, not me--" I shut up as we passed the body on the floor. Next to the torso was what looked at first like an open wallet, but up close I saw it was an FBI ID card and badge. I saw my picture on the badge and then for the first time noticed how it matched the man on the floor. It goes both ways, I thought numbly as the cops led me to the police car. It goes both ways.




"Ispeak for the president." Drugs make the words difficult to say, but the man asked about my job. "He's not the press secretary, but our sources say he regularly sees the president. Hmm. Charles Milford. Top security clearance. Maybe a speech writer. He'll do." "We need someone who sees the president every day. Who's in the inner circle? " Assuming the question is for me, I answer, but only because I have no choice. "The Ten." I consider glancing down when he positions the laser scalpel over my stomach, but my head won't move. "The Ten? I thought there were fifteen departments in the presidential cabinet." I smell roasting flesh. Mine? Curious. Doesn't hurt. Would I mind if it did? "The cabinet provides the faces of power, secretaries of defense, state, etcetera. The control strings stretch behind the scenes. Who knows the unseen puppet masters?" Another of them asks me a different question before I can reply with, "I do." "Will you see the president today?" Silly question. I see the president every day. I need the feedback. "Yes." "What time?" "Two to four in the afternoon." Easy to remember. My work hours are regular. "Perfect." "My God! How much explosive do you intend to pack in his abdomen?" "Enough to take out a city block. If we're lucky, we'll get the vice president, too." "He looks pregnant. Security will check him over if we send him looking like that." "What do you want me to do?" "Take out his small intestines. He won't need them. That should eliminate most of the bulge." "Fine, but we'll have to make sure he doesn't eat lunch." "No problem. We won't release him until just before his appointment. I'll include a false memory with his other instructions. He'll remember eating a big lunch before arriving for the two o'clock meeting." "Hey Charlie." One of them leans above my face. Blurry. Do I know him? He continues. "You're doing a great service for your country helping us take out this fascist regime." "He's got no idea what you mean. His synapses have lost their snap." "Come on, Chuck. Impartial viewpoint. Do you think we can kill the president?" A question for me. I reply, "No one can kill the president." "The man's an idiot. Can you get a better weld on that suture?" "It only has to hold for an hour. The local anesthetics will keep the pain away for longer than that." "Hey, I've got an idea." The face leans over me again. "Charlie, do you think you could get the president and vice president into the same room?" "Of course," I say. "At two o'clock this afternoon?" "Yes," I say. "Make that part of his compulsion. I've set the detonator for two-thirty. Dump in the next round of chemicals." Things shift out of focus. I don't mind. I feel peculiar when I step from the car. Probably ate too much at lunch. Who dropped me off? Strange, I can't remember. A little dizzy, too. I pass the front-gate with only a perfunctory challenge from the guard and walk the back driveway to my office in the basement. Arrive breathing hard. Must be getting out of shape. Glad there are no stairs to climb. My secretary hands me today's script when I enter. One page. Good. I can finish early--don't feel up to par, kind of washed out, tired. Inside the office, I slip on my sensor-laden face mask and swap my corduroy coat for a wired lab jacket. The electronics of my costume glow to life when the control console activates. First scene: the Oval Office. Looking serious, the president sits at his desk. The image forms. A few moments to fine tune the interface, and then a link test. I raise my left arm, and the president does likewise. I pop my jaw, so does he. He mirrors my thumbs-up. The ready light glows. I hesitate. Isn't the vice president supposed to be in the Oval Office with the president? Where had I seen that? Must be some subtle strategy from The Ten that I don't understand. Well, he has no lines to read, and that makes it easier. I press the icon for the vice president, and his computer generated image materializes behind the president. Just a quick electronic enhancement to inspire even more confidence for my meaningful low tones. Everything is set. I can record. Going on stage always energizes me. What a great gig for an actor. Twelve years of performing two hours each day. Twelve years since The Ten replaced the president and then the vice president with computer graphics. At election time, they edit the CG image based on focus group feedback and modulate my tenor to create an attractive new candidate package. That perfect image brings a landslide victory for The Ten. Same people in charge, different stage props. My job in the re-costumed administration? Same as before. I speak for the president. I quickly run through my voice warm-up routine and glance at the clock before pressing the record button. Two twenty-nine P.M.


"Itold the boy's parents there was no hope, but so long as he has brain activity they won't give up. Poor kid. He's only fourteen." "Doesn't matter. His body is shutting down. Kidneys are already gone. We can prolong it for a few days, but we can't repair so much trauma. Still maybe there's something...." Play. Karl's jaw hurts from trying to cram his tongue into Linda's mouth. Slobber drips down his chin--he doesn't know whose-- and that distracts him. Is he doing this right? Todd told him to cop a feel if she lets him stick his tongue in her mouth, but Linda wears braces and Karl's tongue is getting sore-- Reset. Karl slides his hand from Linda's shoulder towards her breast. "No." She pushes his hand away. "That's twice. Don't try again." Reset. Karl touches Linda's breast. She smiles and runs her hand across his thigh. He can't undo her blouse. Are the buttons backwards? He squeezes his hand into the gap between the buttons. One pops off. "Karl! You tore my blouse. My father's going to kill you." Pause. Realign. "I don't like any of those. Can we edit or combine? He deserves something better." "I can try, but this is all experimental. What do you have in mind?" Redact. Play. Karl shoves his hand between the buttons on Linda's blouse. The top button pops off. "I'm sorry." His face goes hot at his clumsiness. "It's okay." She undoes her blouse. "I'll help you." Store. Pause. "What a tragedy. What's his name again?" "Karl. He won't recover." "Damn. He saved all those other kids. Who knows what he might have become? What a tragedy." Skip. "Karl can you hear me? Just move your hand. A finger will do. Very good. I'm giving you something for the pain. You'll sleep better as soon as it takes effect. What? I can't hear you? Who am I? I'm uh, Linda. You remember Linda... Karl... Karl...." Play. Karl holds his diploma overhead and waves to his parents. "Congratulations." Dr. Cullen smiles from the front row of faculty when Karl passes. "Thanks." Karl stops to shake hands. "I got my acceptance to graduate school." "I knew you would." "Gotta go now. Linda is waiting." Store. Redact. "Looks pretty good. But..." "I know that tone. What else do you want? Remember, we have to be fast." "If his girlfriend graduates with him, and they leave the stage holding hands.... You know?" "Sure. I can do that." Play. Karl wraps his arm about Linda's waist and watches the sunset fade from pink to lavender. "Beautiful wedding." She snuggles her head against his shoulder. "Beautiful sunset." "And a beautiful honeymoon with my beautiful wife." He pulls her close and kisses her. "I'll never forget this moment." "I know." She smiles. "Neither will I." Store. Pause. "That was perfect. Damn it. You've got me crying." "You care so much about the kid, I wanted to rip something special. Padded out the scenes we already have, but we're cutting this close." "You are an artist. No doubt about it. A real artist." Play. After the nurse took the baby away, Karl sat in the birthing room and watched Linda sleep. What a trooper. What a wonderful woman. What had he done to deserve her? Tears came to his eyes. "I must be the happiest man alive." Pause. "Time is running out. I don't think we can hold onto him much longer." "One more. Please. Squeeze in one more. Complete him." Play. Karl is dying. Only eighty-nine years, but it's been a terrific life. Fortunately, he feels no pain. The children and grandchildren dutifully troop through his hospital room and encourage him to get well, but he knows he won't. The last five months since Linda died have been too hard, too lonely. He yearns for... not more, the time was enough, but he wouldn't mind reliving his life. He closes his eyes to remember the day he first met Linda. Upload. "Karl's parents are here. I told them the end was near. They want to know about the electronics you've connected to the boy's head. I didn't know what to say, so I told them it was monitoring equipment. Surely, you're not experimenting on this poor kid." "No experiment. He deserves a gift before he leaves." "What can you give to a dying boy?" "What we all want. Memories of a full life. We transcribed dreams into his mind--dreams constructed as the highpoints of his life. His imagination will fill in the details until it seems like more than just dreams." "Is this ethical?" "I don't know. I don't care. It damn sure wasn't ethical for a madman to take an automatic weapon into a school to kill innocent students. Except for Karl's bravery, dozens might have died. Karl deserves a life even if he never gets the full measure of years. Let me freshen the complete sequence before he's gone. Let him remember in the time he has left." Replay. Karl can't keep his eyes on the road. He repeatedly glances at Linda. So smart, so sweet, so beautiful. How could he be so lucky? Driveway ahead. Time to meet the parents. Karl isn't worried that his mother won't like his fianc�e. After all, Linda is his dream girl.


If you find these tablets, we hope that you will be able to decipher them. Unfortunately there is little chance that language as we know it will survive the sands of time. There is also a slight issue with legibility since these words are being scribed by the light of a micro laser. In short, our race has run out of time. Generations of squandering precious resources and constant abuse of the environment has created a poisoned planet that cannot recover. Those who have not yet died from the radiation will soon perish from lack of breathable air. Even the elite will not be able to purchase their supply because we no longer have the materials to purify it. To my knowledge, our team possesses the last known reserve and it shall be used to carry out this final mission. In our last hours we have created you a new earth small enough to fit in the palm of my hand. To your eyes this world will seem immensely large. We have enough material for several sister planets and moons and of course your very own sun. Due to time constrains we are forced to confine all the life forms we have scaled down to your own planet. That may be for the best. If we can impart to you any knowledge from the past let it be this: Time is the most precious commodity of all. Once you have used all of yours up, there is no creating more. Don't do anything today that will jeopardize tomorrow. Now is the time for me to go. I will say my final goodbyes to the team as I put them to sleep. The air I have left should keep me alive just long enough to reach a safe point in space outside of any dangerous trajectories. On your moon I will lay down these tablets, just like the tablets we had discovered on our moon a long time ago. Our people had translated the message a century back, but it was only in our final hours that we understood the meaning.



Character is what you are in the dark. My dad told me that. At the time I thought he'd made it up. Later I learned he got it from a strange movie called The Adventures of Buckaroo Banzai Across the 8th Dimension. It was decades before I understood what it meant and even longer before I realized it was me. If you only live one-eighth of each day, you are spending your life in the dark.
This was a typical day. Well, what little I could remember of it. Nothing differentiated one day from the next and perhaps that was the problem. Or maybe it was me.
Get up at 7 am. Shit, shower, shave. Gobble down a quick breakfast of low-carb microwaved oatmeal that has never been closer to a field of oats than it was while puddled in a red and black Wal-Mart bowl.
On the subway by 7:45 am. If all goes well and no suicidal marketing analysts throw themselves on the track, I meet Jason Kim at the Java Joe's across the street from IntroSpec. Burnt coffee and a stale bagel. Fifteen minutes of bitching about life and the job I couldn't remember. Cross the street, through the doors at IntroSpec, and into the security cordon a few minutes before 9. memory plug into neural tap only to unplug a fraction of a second later. Ten hours have passed and I've logged a few hours of overtime and inched a fraction of a micron closer to paying off the mortgage on my downtown Toronto condo. Another hour in transit and by 8 pm I'm home, exhausted even though I can't remember doing much of anything. Change out of my "casual business attire," shovel a microwaved-dinner into my face, and it's 9 pm. To get seven hours sleep I have to be in bed by midnight.
Three hours. That was my day. Or rather, that was my day. Three precious hours, and what did I do? Two hours at the Social and Entertainment Centre watching some crappy crime scene drama, and one hour looking at porn. Well... sometimes two.
And Mom wondered why I was still single.
I blamed the memory plug. It was either that or accept responsibility for how my life had turned out. The Plugs, while inserted, scrambled all memories created during that time. Those memories could only be accessed while that same plug was worn. It was the ultimate in security and protecting the hallowed company's all-important intellectual property rights. Unplug at the end of the day and you had no idea what you'd been doing for the last ten hours. To make matters worse, as my skillset became increasingly outdated, I grew ever more dependent on the company. No doubt they were teaching me new skills to keep apace of the ever changing technology, but if I left the company the memory plug stayed with them. Quitting IntroSpec would be like hurling myself backwards into the Dark ages.
The Social and Entertainment Centre lit the room a flickering yellow with commercials for tropical vacations and, noting my wandering attention, brightened the colors and subtly increased the volume. I killed the SEC with a thought and my eyes adjusted immediately to the change in illumination; my parents had them "fixed" when I was seven. They'd discovered I was nearsighted--and genetically imperfect--and complained to the genelab they'd hired once the decision to breed had been formalized. With abject and embarrassed apologies the lab offered to replace my defective eyes free of charge.
I don't remember anyone ever asking me what I wanted.
"Stop it," I told my eyes. I wanted to sit in the dark.
The traffic noise from the highway just outside the window ignored the condo brochure's promises of perfect soundproofing and the flashing LED billboards blasted through dimmed windows.
So much for sitting in the dark.
Back before memory plugs became commonplace, back when I could remember what I did for a living, I enjoyed my job. Sure there were almost no women in the office, but I got to play with all the latest computers. They were beautiful. They made sense. Other people however, they were a problem. You can't force people to learn and the more ignorant they are, the more desperately they'll cling to whatever it is they believe.
I know this to be true. I believe all kinds of strange things about women, am pretty damned sure most of it is wrong, and yet seem unable to do anything about my ignorance.
You are what you do, that was the other thing Dad always said. I think it was a shot at me, like all the escapist crap that went on in my head wasn't worth anything. If he's right, a title is all I was: Senior Systems Architect. Somehow that had something to do with being a UNIX admin at IntroSpec, a trans-global financial and speculative investment company.
Thirty-eight and still single. Not even dating. Not even the prospect of a date on the horizon. Tonight I would finally do something about that.
I slumped back, sinking deeper into the sofa, and thought at the SEC. It flicked on and asked in an annoyingly excited voice what I wanted to do now. Like every moment spent with the damn SEC was an adventure.
"Social Google," I said. "Dating and Relationships." The SEC displayed the page on its seventy-five-inch 3D screen and tracked the movement of my eyes. It watched the pulsating of irises, sampled the hormones and pheromones in the air, and suggested what amounted to a state-sanctioned Escort Service for lonely business executives. I never could get used to thinking of myself as an Exec, and this wasn't what I wanted anyway.
"No. Relationships. Not one night hookups." Though perhaps that wouldn't be so bad. I sat thinking, trying to visualize meeting and having sex with a complete stranger. What do you do before the sex? What about after? What are the protocols? The idea scared the crap out of me. I wanted to date. Go for coffee. See a movie. A chaste kiss on the second date. A more serious kiss on the third. Making out on the fourth and sex sometime after that, when I had some idea who this person was. I wanted there to be some kind of connection first, some kind of predictability to reduce the risks inherent in all social interaction.
Self-doubt gnawed at me. Did I really want to do this? Did I really want to mess up my safe and predictable life?
Safe. Predictable. Boring.
Hell yes.
The Social and Entertainment Centre began peppering me with questions, trying to figure out exactly what I was looking for. Age range? Income? Children? The list went on long enough I almost gave up, but when it asked what type of job my prospective date should have I was suddenly alert.
What if I met someone in a line of work that didn't require memory plugs? What the hell could we talk about, what would we have in common? That cynical voice at the back of my head muttered that I didn't have anything to talk about with anyone anyway, but I did my best to ignore it.
"She should wear a memory plug at work," I told the SEC decisively. I was faking it and fooling no one. Not even the SEC.
A moment later the SEC displayed a list of 8,253 women replete with pictures and profiles.
"Crap." That was way too many. It'd take forever to read through all of that. I had an idea. "Only display women with the same job."
The SEC took me rather more literally than I'd meant and displayed a single profile.
"Raajaa Sinder," I read aloud. "Senior Systems Architect."
I watched the 3D profile image as she seemed to watch me. The illusion was unsettling and I felt a moment of confused guilt, like I'd been caught spying. Her smile washed that away and I was lost in dark eyes and chocolate skin. She wasn't beautiful, at least not by the standards the SEC had been programming me with for the last few years. She looked a little too noticeably ethnic and lacked the racially blended look that was so in vogue. Face a little flat, eyes perhaps too close together, nose too large for her small, round face. And yet she was stunning. I suspected most people would disagree.
I watched, rapt, listening to Raajaa's recorded message. Her lips turned words like "SAN migration" into soft, sinful pleasures, and the hint of a fading English accent made her all the more exotic. I recorded a message and sent it before reason, logic, and sheer gutless cowardice could stop me.
Five minutes later she sent a reply and twenty minutes after that I was on the subway, bound for a little coffee shop called The Epicurean Caf�.
When I arrived Raajaa was already there, sitting with her back to the plate-glass window fronting the caf�. I sat across from her, trying not to stare and yet not be distracted by the pedestrians on the sidewalk behind her and the gaudy strobing of the CN Tower's once-rotating restaurant.
Raajaa flashed a smile of brilliant white teeth in startling contrast to the mahogany of her skin. "So, a fellow Senior Systems Architect."
"What? Oh. Yeah. Apparently." Lovely. Very smooth. I quashed the urge to grimace.
She didn't seem to notice my awkwardness and launched into a rant about how she'd spent an hour at home, crawling around under her desk with a bag of cable ties making everything look "neat and proper."
When she finally ground to a halt I sat staring at her, unable to speak or even blink.
Raajaa turned a mahogany shade of red and started talking again to fill the awkward silence. "I collect old computers. I have a bunch of old RAID systems. They used to be worth hundreds of thousands of dollars, but now they're doorstops. Not wireless. They still require, uh, cabling."
When I realized I was making her uncomfortable I pulled out my Me-Fone and showed her a picture of my home office and the stacked computers filling every nook and cranny. The cables were color-coded and tied in neat bundles. "RAID 5. And I'm rebuilding an old tape-drive backup system we used back in the nineties." A white lie. I had all the components, but hadn't actually worked on my pet project in almost two years. When did I have the time?
The ice was broken and we talked long into the night, only leaving when the staff started stacking chairs around us. When it came time to say goodbye we shook hands and made promises to meet again on the weekend. Just as I was about to turn away Raajaa caught my sleeve and pulled me into a quick hug.
"I like your accent," I called out impetuously as she walked away.
"I like yours too," she called back over her shoulder.
I got home at 2 am, tired and grinning like an idiot.
Alex Baker - UNPLUGGED.
Friday, Oct 20th, 2023. 8:45 am
Java Joe's was crowded with people desperately trying to cram in a few last minutes of living before going to work and their memory plugs. Most days I found self-sacrifice in the name of copyright laws and the protection of intellectual property to be disgusting.
Today? Not so much.
The coffee was burnt and the bagel stale. I'd have been disappointed if it had been any other way. Yep, today was that good.
Jason Kim, my best friend since high school, sat across the table. Irish Korean, Jason was tall slender and handsome with dark almond eyes and just a hint of epicanthic folds. I'd never seen his hair anything less than perfect.
"You have a girlfriend and I'm single." Jason grimaced. "That's it. The seventh sign of the apocalypse. End of the world. Cats and dogs--"
"Living in harmony," I finished. "I think it's too early to call her my girlfriend. We only went on one date."
"That's something. So I don't have to call the press?"
"Well, it was a pretty good date. World might end this weekend, I'm going to see her again." I grinned at Jason and lifted the mug of lukewarm coffee in a mock toast. "She collects old computers and has an English accent."
Jason muttered a quiet "shit" before meeting my eyes with a sardonic smirk. "You're insufferable when you're happy."
"Oh, poor muffin. Does the lonely guy need a hug?"
Noting the time, we abandoned the remains of our stagnant coffees and crossed the street to IntroSpec.
Time to flush away another day.
Alex Baker - PLUGGED.
Friday, Oct 20th, 2023. 9:04 am
I stood, rooted to the floor, staring at Jason as he exited the IntroSpec security cordon. "Fuck me."
"What's up?" Jason asked.
"That woman you're having that lunchroom love affair with--"
"Raaj, the other Senior Systems Architect."
"Yeah. It's her."
"Who is her?"
"The woman. The one I met last night. The one I went on a date with."
We stood staring at each other. Jason recovered first.
"You went on a date with Raaj, my girlfriend?"
"Well, your lunchroom love--"
"Whatever. You know how I feel about her."
I lifted my hands defensively. "It's not my fault. I was unplugged. I didn't know you were going out with her. I didn't even know I knew her! Look, it's no big deal. Nothing happened. We'll talk this over and get it straightened out."
Jason marched through the maze of cubicles with me in tow as if dragged by a chain of guilt. He kept muttering under his breath but I couldn't catch any of what was being said. It didn't sound happy.
When we entered the corner where our three cubicles faced towards a central common area, replete with dollar-store coffee machine and an empty water cooler rimmed with calcium deposits, the look on Raaj's face stopped me dead.
Where Jason was seething hurt, Raaj was a mix of confusion and anger. She stepped towards Jason but stopped when she saw his face.
"Jason--" she started.
"What the hell? I thought--"
"I was unplugged. Outside I don't know about us. I'm really lonely." She grimaced. "Just outside, unplugged," she added.
Jason shook his head in confusion. "Lonely? Why didn't you say something?"
Raaj stepped tentatively towards Jason. "I'm not lonely at work. I have you. But when I go home you cease to be part of my life. When I'm unplugged I have no one."
"But... Alex? I thought you..." Jason's voice faded to nothing.
"You know I don't like him."
"Hey, I'm right here," I said.
Jason and Raaj turned to face me but only Raaj spoke. "This isn't exactly news. You don't like me and I think you're a passive-aggressive arse."
"You seemed to like me just fine last night," I shot back, hurt.
That stopped her. "Sorry," she said. "But you know it's true. We've been working together for years and we've never got along well. Soon enough we'll realize that on the outside, when we're unplugged."
I wasn't so sure but couldn't think of a way of saying so without sounding petulant.
Jason too looked less than convinced. "Alex said you two had another date planned for this weekend."
"We didn't actually nail down any plans," said Raaj. "Maybe we won't even see each other again."
She was avoiding my eyes. There was no doubt that, once unplugged and home, I was definitely going to call Raajaa and make plans for Saturday.
We worked in such close proximity there was no avoiding each other. When Jason and Raaj disappeared for their lunchtime tryst I remained in my cubicle, staring woodenly at the faded Dilbert comics pinned to the padded blue-grey wall. Was Raaj right, would we soon realize how much we disliked each other? Right now it seemed a very real possibility, but I could remember how I felt last night as we sat talking. She collected old computers! How could we not get along?
The rest of the day was hell.
Alex Baker - UNPLUGGED.
Friday, Oct 20th, 2023. 7:13 pm
I exited Introspec and looked around for Jason but he was nowhere to be seen. No real surprise, Jason often left on time. I had to admire his ability to walk away from a project--no matter what stage it was in--at 5 pm to head for home. Perhaps if I could do that I'd have more than three hours of "real life" a day.
Now that I was out and unplugged, all I wanted to do was rush home and talk to Raajaa.
Once home however it didn't seem so easy. I sat in front of the SEC, a processed ham-on-whole-wheat sandwich forgotten on the coffee table before me. Should I call her? She had said that she wanted to see me again but was she just being polite, just letting me off easy?
The SEC pinged for attention. It was Raajaa.
"Hey there," she said with a mischievous grin. I could see a collection of old computer casings piled against the wall behind her.
"I was just trying to work up the guts to call you," I said.
"I can hang up and let you get back at that if you want."
"Nah. Any doubts I may have had have been soundly put to rest. I thought we were going to hook up tomorrow, on Saturday."
Raajaa rolled her eyes. "Or, if you're willing to blow off that sad-looking sandwich, we could grab dinner tonight."
An hour later we sat in a quiet Indian restaurant called North of Bombay eating Hyderabadi biryani which, Raajaa informed me, actually came from somewhere five hundred kilometers east and south of Mumbai. After dinner we walked back to her place, holding hands, chatting about our computer collections, and reminiscing about the days when we could remember what we did for a living. By some unspoken agreement neither talked about our current jobs; there was no point. It's difficult to maintain an interesting conversation about something you have no recollection of.
I didn't return home until late Sunday evening.
Alex Baker - PLUGGED.
Monday, Oct 22nd, 2023. 9:06 am
Jason and I stood in the hall beyond the IntroSpec security cordon, staring at each other.
Jason broke the silence first. "You son of a bitch!"
"But I didn't know!"
"You spent the weekend screwing my girlfriend--"
"You're screwing my girlfriend when she's at work!"
"--and the last fifteen minutes bragging about it at Java Joe's."
Jason, finally hearing what I said, stepped menacingly towards me. Thinking I was about to be hit for the first time since grade three, I quickly backed away.
Jason halted his advance. "We'll meet at lunch," he growled. "The three of us--"
"That won't be awkward."
"--and figure this out."
If Friday was hell, Monday was turning into something far worse.
We met at lunch in one of the unused boardrooms. I sat on one side of the table while Jason and Raaj sat across from me. I slumped in my chair, arms crossed a little too tightly as if hugging myself.
Jason leaned forward, elbows resting on the tabletop. "I assume we all agree that this is unacceptable. The question is what are we going to do about it?"
"I don't suppose you two are willing to break it off at work," I said, only half joking.
"Alex," Raaj admonished softly.
"Sorry. It's just... outside, we have--"
She leaned forward and rested her hand on my arm, effectively silencing me. When I saw the look on Jason's face, I kept my mouth shut. At least for the moment.
"I know what it seems like," said Raaj. "But Jason and I have been seeing each other for years at work. We're really in love."
I took that to mean that she thought what we shared while unplugged wasn't real. "I'm sorry, but what you two have at work is doomed. You unplug at the end of each day and promptly forget each other. Outside of work, all Jason knows about you is what I've told him. The company will never let you keep your memory plugs. You will never get married. You will never have children together. It's doomed," I repeated.
"We know." Jason said it calmly, but his face betrayed his anger. "It doesn't matter."
Raaj nodded in agreement. "Alex, the fact is you and I don't even like each other and we've known each other for years. At some point we're going to figure that out while unplugged. What's happening outside is just as doomed." She glanced at Jason. "More so," she added.
"You're my friend, right?" Jason asked.
I saw what was coming next but could see no way to avoid it. "You're my best friend," I agreed. Damned near my only friend, but I wasn't about to say that out loud. At least not now.
"And you're mine. All I can say is, I saw her first." Jason shot an apologetic look at Raaj. "It's juvenile, but that's how it is. And I love her."
And that was it. No way out. I nodded. "Okay. I'll break it off on the outside."
"How?" Asked Raaj. "We can't remember any of this once we Unplug."
"I'll figure something out."
Later, while sitting at my cubicle, I pulled off my right shoe and wrote a note on the bottom of my foot.
Alex Baker - UNPLUGGED.
Monday, Oct 22nd, 2023. 8:37 pm
The SEC pinged for my attention. It was Raajaa.
"Hey sexy," she said.
"God, I love that accent."
"How about you get your arse over here. Now."
"Yes Ma'am. Gotta shower first, and then I'm on my way."
She blew me a kiss full of hot promise and was gone. The shower was the fastest I'd ever taken. My right foot was strangely tingly and raw. When I sat on the side of the tub to examine it, I saw that all the calluses had been scrubbed away. Weird, I must have done that at work.
The foot was quickly forgotten in my rush to get to Raajaa's.
Alex Baker - UNPLUGGED.
Tuesday, Oct 23rd, 2023. 8:50 am
Jason was already at Java Joe's when I arrived. "You don't even have to say it," he grinned. "I can tell by your face; you saw her again last night."
I nodded, flashing my own happy smile. "It was amazing."
For the next few minutes I told my best friend all the intimate details of the previous evening. The things she did with her tongue. The things I did with mine.
Alex Baker - PLUGGED.
Tuesday, Oct 23rd, 2023. 9:02 am
"Jason--"
"You said you were going to--"
"I left myself a note--" the memory of my tingling foot stopped me. "They found it."
Jason grabbed me and dragged me down the hall, away from the prying ears of IntroSpec's security staff. "Obviously. You thought you could sneak a note past security? If they cared that little, we wouldn't be wearing these damned memory plugs."
I shook Jason off. "I had to try. It's okay, I have another idea."
"Really? Is it better than hiding a fucking note between your toes?"
"I didn't... never mind. Yes, it's better." I didn't want to discuss it any further because I was less than sure who would really benefit from my new plan. There was a good chance it would get one or more of us fired.
Instead of taking a lunch break I visited the Human Resources department. It was a single small room with a shaky looking plastic collapsible table, and an unshaven middle-aged man sitting at it. The tabletop was barren except for a thin science-fiction paperback titled only 88. No interface of any kind was in sight.
"Is this Human Resources?" I asked, confused.
"That's what it says on the door."
"This is it?"
"No. We have a huge HR department with really nice desks and beautiful secretaries but we keep it hidden from the employees." This was delivered deadpan, with no hint of sarcasm.
"Right." I entered the HR office and realized there was no chair for me to sit in. "So you're not too busy?"
"Who said I wasn't busy? What do you want?"
I shrugged aside my confusion. "What's the company's policy on romances between personnel?"
"Verboten," snapped the man, thumping a fist down on the rickety table.
"Right. Well there's kind of this love triangle thing--"
"Threesome?" This was the first bit of real interest the man had shown.
"No. One guy is seeing the--"
"Seriously? I don't care."
"But unplugged--"
"No one cares."
"But--"
"Is everyone still doing their job?"
"Well... yes."
"Then IntroSpec doesn't care. Glad to have been of service. Goodbye."
I stalked forward and leaned on the table, which shifted ominously under my weight. "What kind of HR department--"
"The only reason IntroSpec even has an HR department is because by law they have to have one. I am it. This way they can, with all honesty, claim that they have an HR Department that represents and assists their employees. I have answered your questions. You have been assisted. Now fuck off."
"But--"
"But what? You don't get it." The man grimaced with annoyance. "At the end of the day you are going to unplug and forget everything that happened at the office. You might hate your job and everyone here, but the second you unplug it's all gone. The only way you can quit is if you do so while at work and still plugged. Then, if IntroSpec rather you stayed with the company, they leave you plugged until the end of the day. When you unplug to go home you immediately forget that you've quit and return to work the next day. Haven't you ever wondered why memory plugs are designed so that you can't unplug them yourself? There are people who have been trying to quit for years. Eventually they give up. It isn't like there's a lot of other work out there. Sometimes, when IntroSpec wants to fire someone but doesn't want to cough up for severance pay, they wait until they're unplugged and just tell them that they quit. Who will ever know otherwise?"
"Should you be telling me all this?"
The man snorted. "What are you going to do about it, complain to the HR department?"
The rest of the week crawled like an injured snail. I tried scribbling notes on the flesh between my toes, tucking messages into seams in my clothing, and hiding things in various orifices. Nothing worked, and no message made it past IntroSpec's security.
Each morning I met Jason for burnt coffee and stale bagels at Java Joe's, bragged of my sexploits and told my friend of the burgeoning love between Raajaa and me. Each day, once we'd plugged in, Jason stalked away without a word.
I spent lunches alone, wondering where Jason and Raaj were and imagining what they were up to.
Alex Baker - PLUGGED.
Friday, Oct 26th, 2023. 12:13 pm
I sat across the table from Jason and Raajaa, but this time it felt a lot less like the two-against-one of our last meeting. There was some indefinable non-physical distance between the two that had not been there before.
Deciding to lay my metaphorical cards on the table, I spoke first. "I can't take this any more. My best friend hates me and I have to live with the fact that he's screwing the woman I love every lunch hour." I decided to try a joke to lighten the tension. "Maybe if I'd watched more Sesame Street as a child I'd be better at sharing." The joke flopped.
Jason was studiously not looking at Raaj. "We aren't. Not any more. She ended it." He glared at me. "You stole the only woman I've ever really loved. Good job. You happy now?"
"No. I'm miserable."
"That's not fair," snapped Raaj. "He didn't 'steal' me. No one planned this. It's just... well... here at work... there is no future for us, Jason. I'm sorry but it's true."
"We didn't mean to fall in love," I added.
"We didn't fall in love," Raaj corrected. "I still think you're an arse. It's only outside."
"Plugged you just never took the time to get to know me."
"Unplugged me just hasn't had time to learn what an arse you can be."
"You're both arses," Jason threw in for good measure. "Why the hell did you ask us to meet you here, Alex? It's not enough that you tell me all the intimate details of your sex life every morning before work and I have to sit in my cubicle knowing what kind of lubricant you bought together?" He shook his head and muttered "Fuck" with great feeling.
"You tell him about our sex life?"
For a moment I thought to deny it but realized it didn't matter. "Yeah. He's my best friend."
"Was."
"Still is, you know, when unplugged. It's not like Jason wasn't telling me everything you guys were doing before all this happened. And don't even bother telling me that your girlfriends don't know every intimate detail of our sex life."
"Passive-aggressive arse." But she didn't deny it.
I stood and raised my hands to quell any further argument or hurling of insults. "None of this matters. I have decided that I want my cake and to eat it too."
"What?" Jason and Raaj asked together.
"Ignorance, as they say, is bliss. I have figured out how to keep both the woman I love and my best friend. It's obvious. I have to quit IntroSpec." I didn't add "if they'll let me." It seemed unlikely that I was all that valuable to the company.
"You're going to quit for me?" asked Raaj, eyes wide with surprise and something else I couldn't define.
"No," I said. "I'm going to quit for who you are when not at work. I'm quitting for her. I think you've changed. I think we've all changed. We've all become different than the people we were before we started wearing these damned memory plugs. I like who I am unplugged. I haven't been that happy in a long time."
"You don't seem all that happy," muttered Jason.
"I'm not. I am, as previously stated, miserable. Outside me, unplugged me, he's happy. I want that. I want to be him."
"But you are him," said Raaj.
"No. I want to be him all the time. I realized that I don't give a damn what you think. All I care about is what unplugged you thinks." I shrugged. "Go ahead, hate me. You don't matter. Outside," I nodded at Jason "you are my best friend." I looked at Raaj and gave her a sad smile. "And unplugged you loves me." I backed away from the table. "I'll see you both on the outside, in the real world. Jason my friend, I'm going to marry this woman. I hope you'll be my Best Man."
"Fuck you."
I bowed, spun on my heel, and left IntroSpec forever. Perhaps Raaj was right. Perhaps I was a little passive-aggressive.
Alex Baker - UNPLUGGED.
Saturday, May 15th, 2024. 4:30 pm
I watched Jason fidget in his rented tuxedo. If anyone should be fidgeting here it was me, but I felt nothing but calm anticipation. We stood at the alter, Groom and Best Man, awaiting Raajaa's arrival.
"You okay?" I whispered.
Jason nodded, shifting his cummerbund as if it chafed painfully. "Yeah. IntroSpec went over the deep-end with their security measures right after you left. I unplug every day to find myself scrubbed raw. I'm all pink and don't have a callus on my entire body!" He grimaced as his pants rubbed at tender flesh. "You quit at the perfect time."
I was immediately reminded of the days I'd arrived home from IntroSpec to find myself pink and raw. It had been just before I quit. Had that been the reason I'd left the company? To this day I can't imagine how I could have walked away from such a high-paying job. My friends all said I was crazy. Crazy but happy.
I shrugged. "Just lucky, I guess."
Jason shook his head and whispered, "I can't believe she used to work at IntroSpec too."
I hadn't even known we'd worked at the same company until after I'd left. She quit a week later. "Yeah, weird, eh?"
"I wonder if I knew her at work, when plugged."
I shrugged. Knowing her skillset it was all too likely. The thought left me strangely uncomfortable.
The four-piece jazz band launched into the Wedding March and we watched as Raajaa began her stately walk down the isle, her father at her side. She was beautiful, she practically glowed. Thinking back to what had started me on this path I suddenly realized something.
Dad was wrong. Character is what you are in the light.


